This board book makes no sense! While the original Fox in Socks follows two characters as they tackle more and more tongue twisters, this board book just eliminates about half of their dialog and a few of the harder twisters.  Where's Luke Luck and his Duck that lick lakes? Where is old Joe Crow? Why only half of the poodle noodle battle? What about Bim and Bin's Big Pig Broom Bands? Don't get this book. Pick up the beginner's library version if you are pressed for cash, but DO NOT BUY the board book.
I ordered this book for my son and it came with no cartridge and I can't play it in the machine.  It is not worth anything and since I'd not bought them before I didn"t know what to buy.  Not very pleased with that.
I bought this book to read to my little sister...I did not see that this book was a cardboard highly ABRIDGED version. Very disappointed even though it is partially my fault.
The book had a lot of writing and coloring in it. It also took along time to get here.  I ordered other books from other sellers  and they arrived a whole week before this book.
Used book which I knew, however, all pages were nit attached to the spine of the book. I received a cover with loose pages. Horrible, never again!!!
I bought this and it did not come with the cartridge, needless to say my son saw it and I had to explain to him that we had to send it back.  Please make sure before you purchase this that it comes with the cartridge.  Unfortunately the seller did not specify, so I guess it was my fault for assuming.
My wife bought this for our daughter for christmas several years back and frankly it is a terrible book. This coming from a huge fan of Dr. Seuss. It basically has no story or interesting plot at all. The purpose of the book is just to have a bunch of tongue twisters just to have them there. I really was surprised how bad this book was since I love so many other Dr. Seuss books (our child has at least 15 other seuss books we love). Honestly, my child picks this book periodically for bed time stories, and my wife and i will cringe when reading this. Also, our child doesn't really seem to care for it either.
Get real I live in northern Wisconsin we don't have an Asian market that sells all that  exotic Asian ingredients. I'm better off going to a Chinese cookbook that has well known ingredients that you can buy anywhere
I purchased this book based on the 31 5 star reviews. After a trip to Thailand, I wanted to learn to cook the food. I am disappointed. The format is TOO BIG 10x14"to be practical as a cookbook. Also the recipes are short on techniques--just the ingredients and basic cooking instructions. I'm donating this book to Goodwill and purchasing a real Thai cookbook.
Supposedly this book is incredibly shocking and disturbing---nah.  I've read worse.  I got through half of it and stopped reading it, it disappointed me so much.  I was building myself up because every review raves about it, but frankly, it ain't that great. Perhaps it's Godfrey's style that did it for me.  I believe it's called stream of consciousness...?  Anywho, it didn't sit well with me.  When the narrarator has abstract thoughts floating in and out of her lines, the reader starts to feel as wasted as the main characters. ...Although maybe I'm being too harsh.  I should have given it a fair chance by at least finishing it, but it was too much of a let-down.  I expected more stomach-churching, gut-wrenching, gritty events...and it was more like a shrug-your-shoulders kind of deal. Plus, if the author has the character(s) use the f-word that much, it just shows they're trying too hard to come off as tough guys.  It achieves the opposite effect.
This book kind of sucked. I was sure I was going to like it but it failed to live up to some of the comments that others have said about it. I never really got into the story and the characters weren't at all people you would want to meet let alone read about. Save your money and buy a good book.
I didn't care for this book, I think it's highly overrated. I think the author has seen too many movies that use flashback scenes, because she tried to use them all over the place in this novel and it just made it more incoherent.
Granted.  I have not read the whole thing, yet.  But the section I was VERY interested in and is the reason I bought it is junk.  The section on foraging plants for food was about as vague as...well I can't find an analogy.  Every YouTuber and his cousin praise this book like it the be-all, end-all.  Well, not for me.  14 bucks in the toilet.  That's pretty expensive toiliewipe.
Received in box with other items and the book cover was damaged. This is a gift for my nephew.  It looks used .  Disappointed
It is a shame that Feist continues to let his readers down.  After the Riftwar and Serpentwar sagas, I guess there was no place to go but down.  I have read both sagas about 5 times and you could not pay me to read the conclave trilogy again.  This trilogy appears to be writtin in 3 hours much like a bad sequel to a great movie.  Tal Hawkins in the first book was a different spin and mildely entertaining, but this book is supposed to be the setup to a great finish, not a decent start to a painful conclusion.  The last 2 books were so lackluster that I found it difficult to even finish them.  Mr. Feist...please take a vacation and maybe you will get your swing back.
Poor, poor character development, almost plotless, repetitive, and glacial pace.  Ive never read a book where almost ALL the characters were evil, children included.  Stunningly ridiculous.
Slow-moving dirge slithers mournfully from a woman's impoverished youth to wealthy middle-age.  Probably the most depressing thing I've ever read.
Very old and beat up.  could not even read it.
I do not recommend.
I found this book very depressing. I would not recommend it. It's only saving grace is the bit of relative history within the story.
Really bad! The main characters are far fetched and incomprehensible. Disappointing!
I read this book back in 1978, when I was fifteen.  I wish I could read myself of that horrible memory, but I can't.  This book is one long, self-pitying rant.  The paranoia, persecution mania, and grandiosity in this book would make a specialist in abnormal psychology blanch; the self-pity and preening victimization ("Oh, poor me") would make the most self-pitying adolescent throw up.  There is no artistry in this book; instead of allowing the reader to discover the characters and message on his own, Caldwell has her characters tell us (ENDLESSLY!) how we should feel.  Rather than allowing her victimized main character to show some complexity or her victimizing supporting characters to display some humanity, she presents them as cardboard cutouts--chess pieces to be manipulated (unsubtly and crudely) across an explicitly-diagrammed chessboard.  Caldwell says that the book reflects her own life experiences.  But she can't render those hurtful experiences in a complex or meaningful way; instead, she just screams "Poor me" over and over into the reader is sickened, and moans about how hateful the world is until the reader comes to an obvious conclusion:  The evil that Caldwell condemns comes not from the world around her, but from within herself.  I have truly never read a more hate-filled, self-important book in my entire life.  Indeed, reading it ranks as one of the most unpleasant experiences in my entire life.  (...)
Very simplistic writing style- he said, she said, then he said, then she said.  This reads like a first attempt, not like a book written by a seasoned author of over 30 books.
Why does the back cover of the book says $8.99 and I paid $79.99 for it? I cant imagine a book this little to cost so much. I didn't pay attention to the size when I made the order. I thought it was a large book with good color illustrations. A pocket book costing this much? Its really quite ridiculous. I buy a lot of books. All my life I have been buying books and enjoying them, but this one really feels like a rip off. Sorry. Forget about what info it holds. All good books hold great amazing info. So we dont' need to go to that argument. I mean, how much does it cost to print this little book??? RIP OFF. Thats all I can say.
I love Jack Higgins.  I go out of my way to collect his series and his novels.  I was shocked at the lack of writing skills in this book.  The transitions between scenes, the rapid conversational paragraphs with no set ups etc made this book read like a high school kid wrote it.  Or maybe it was just a screen play.  Don't bother reading this book.  You will gain nothing from it.
This is my very first book review. Because this book is so fundamentally wrong I need to speak up. The main character Sean Dillion, formal IRA, has a license to kill and make the killing like a game rather than justice. He does whatever he wants to do without follow orders nor has any boundary. He pickup a couple of his terrorism/criminal partners making killing like a habits, terrorism competition, fun game and egoism fulfillment. It so far from any common sense such as the British General could not control this maniacal killer and let he kills who he wish to kill or threaten his masculinity. The killings like a joke to him and have absolutely no legal consequence. This book has promote violence behavior has no artist nor entertainment value. I lost my interest in Jack Higgins Sean Dillion's serial after finishing this ridicules book.
It's a hard slog to read a book written by someone just going through the motions.  Jack Higgins drags out his stock company of characters - Sean Dillon and his .22 in an ankle holster and glasses of Bushmills and cardboard villians and it's just a bore.  The action isn't believable.  The plot is silly.  The dialogue is written to tell the reader what's going on (and every character speaks with the same voice) - this isn't how real people speak.  Then the characters overexplain because, apparently, the author wasn't paying attention when he gave you the same information a dozen or so pages ago.  Frankly, I've read enough about the IRA and Prods and One Para and County Down to last me the rest of my born days.  It just isn't worth it anymore, Jack.  Too much work reading for too little reward.
I don't know who is worse- Higgins or Macnee. The plot is so tranparent you can guess what is coming next. Completely implausible. Macnee's narration is so overdone it is laughable. Most of the time the characters do little more than quaff enormous amounts of Bushmills Irish Whisky. A real stinker. Wayne Schwartz, Los Angeles, CA
This is my first Jack Higgins book and it will certainly be my last.  Especially if, as the reviews state, it is the best Higgins book in a long time.  The characters are never developed.  The way the book begins, you think that the Rashid's are the good guys, and Dillin is the bad guy.  Then all the sudden, without developing the characters, the roles are switched.  You end up not caring who dies (and 6 billion people die in this book...a little overkill) and who lives.  The "adventures" are similar to Dora the Explorer in how boring they are.  They are very predictable, and of course, Dillin is killing 50 people and no one can kill him.  Just ridiculous scenes.  Don't get this book, despite the "reliablity" of the author.
Where did the real Jack Higgins go?  This is not only Higgin's worst effort to date, it is probably the worst book I've read in the past 5 years. (Can you say 'lazy', Jack?)  I can't believe I actually finished it, and one star is a generous rating.  Unbelievable chapter after unbelievable chapter, no character or plot development, written like a 5th grader.  The end of the book foretells a sequel...a book that I will immediately pass on.  Probably my last Higgins book without reading the reviews first.  Don't buy it -- don't borrow it -- don't read it.
Edge of Danger is yet another installment of the on-going saga of Dillon, Ferguson and Bernstein.  If you truly enjoyed the preceding efforts by Higgins, then you might like Edge of Danger (because it is more of the same).  However, if you have been growing disenchanted by Higgins' efforts, then you probably want to take a pass on this (and for me at least, future efforts as well).  Higgins' books are more and more like screen plays and less and less like novels.  Dialog between the characters, which often is terse, choppy, and unimaginative, makes up virtually all of the text.  Higgins almost completely avoids the opportunity add any depth and breadth to the story through the use of descriptive text.  As with the last few books from Higgins, Edge of Danger is clearly a disappointment.
This is simply the worst book I remember reading.  I enjoyed a couple other Jack Higgins novels, so I happily picked this up. I'm sorry I did.  It is nothing but action, which might be OK for a fun read on the beach, but even the action is so poorly written it is ridiculous.  Massive action scenes (such as large battles) take place in only 1 or 2 pages.  There's no character development, poor dialogue, no setting descriptions, no drama or suspense -- nothing but a poorly-described series of "events"! Enough said.
As most people readers know, Jack Higgins has written many fine action-packed books. However, this book reads like a twelve-year-old wrote it. The characters are so transparent they could be ghosts. The author and his publishing house must really need the money to rip of the public in this manner. This is the last book I read by this author. One can only rest on his laurels for so long. I'm glad this book was handed down to me or I would have written a really nasty review.
The style of writing leads me to believe that Higgins was under pressure to churn out a book to meet some editor's deadline. There was no character development. Critical turns in the plot and action were blown through without the slightest bit of suspense. I've never read Higgins before and likely will never read him again.
After reading this book, I felt guilty for having purchased it, because that contributed to its best-seller status. (Oops, maybe not; the way it works now, it was a bestseller the day it hit ths stores.) But it is sad to think of all the aspiring writers who struggle to get a publisher's attention for their worthy efforts, while this strangely hollow piece waltzed its way to bestseller status. Some editor should have thrown cold water on this potboiler.
Somebody from higher places should have stopped Mr. Higgins and the publisher from putting this book on the market. Its quite disturbing to see the absence of integrity and sense of responsibility in providing a joy of reading to the public. All along, I had fight off the growing urge of disposing this disastrous novel only because the shipping charge cost more than the book itself. Yet, once I overcame my frustration and finished the book, I regretted not heeding to my senses. Its obvious that Mr. Higgins had no heart in writing this book, and he made no effort in showing creativity with words. I was about to scream my head off when he kept rehashing the same phrases (e.g., browning with carswell silencer) over and over again in every single chapter!! This book made me a true anti-Higgins. ...
I'm so glad that this was not my first Jack Higgins novel. If it were, it would also be my last. Normally, I can forgive Higgins his cliche's and his obsessive attention to his characters' drinking habits, because his characters are fun and interesting. He puts them in great plots and pulls the reader happily through them, and you can't wait to find the next book especially if it's got Sean Dillon. But not this one. All the characters are wooden. The action is colorless and completely unbelievable. A president guarded only by one secret service agent and a dog? A professional assassin who whacks his target on the head and then shoots someone else? There is no sense of timing or place, only the thinnest of motivations for most characters, and no justification for many of the decisions made by characters. This book is amateur hour. Don't bother. Read some of Higgins's earlier works instead.
This is by far his worst effort that I've read. He's not my favorite spy author,anyway. This book feels like it had been written to fulfill a publisher's contract or obligation that Mr. Higgins had assumed and needed to finish in a hurry. The characters are not at all fleshed out, and the story line is too contrived. I would advise not wasting time by reading this book.
I was a big fan of Jack Higgins adventures until this book!  I think this book reads like a poorly written condensed version of a good story - or like the outline of a book.  It jumped around too abruptly with poorly written dialogue - no conversation was stretched into a normal length of exchange between people.  It was difficult to keep track of all the minor characters in the book because none of them were well developed.  I will proabably never read another Jack Higgins book.  I am very disappointed - just like I got with Robert Ludlum in one of his later novels.  I have never read another book of his either.
Boy, this was a disappointing read.  The characters were not well developed (hence challenging to keep track of), the plot was implausible yet predictable, and half way through I had to wrestle with whether or not to even finish the book.  I did, although it was unrewarding to do so. I'd rate this lower if I could. FYI, if you're looking for an alternate selection in the same genre, I highly recommend Silent Joe by T. Jefferson Parker.
I have read many of Jack Higgins' books and this is the poorest so far, in my humble belief. As I travelled thro' the pages it just got harder and harder to believe the simplicity with which Mr Dillon strolls thro' the events at hand. The story also lacks any imagination and could probably have been summed up in a short story. Mr Dillon is just to sci-fi I'm afraid. There is a quote at the start of the book and as I got near the final chapters, I was starting to imagine that the Author would be writing the finale of Mr Dillon....the quote read "To Tess, who thinks it's about time" Author, I think she may mean something else....
Very few books contain their own review.  This one does:   "Stone said, 'It really is like a bad movie, Harry.'   "'You can bleeding well say that again. . . .'" This book reads like a 7th grade reading-level condensation of an outline of a screenplay:  The paragraphs are no more than a few lines long; very few words greater than two syllables are used.  No complex thoughts, no character development, no suspense, and little description.  Pure formulaic twaddle.
I've never written a review but my curiosity about what others thought of this book was a thousand times more compelling than the Edge of Danger.  I've enjoyed Mr. Higgins' books in the past but can't for the life of me understand a) why he wrote this book, or b) why it was published!  There is no plot, no character development, predictable action, no tension.  It's like reading an Executive Summary of a book.  Are you sure they didn't publish the outline by mistake?
Up to now, I have enjoyed almost all of the Higgins books, although they have tended to become more samey.  I was particularly disappointed by Edge Of Danger. The tired old characters of Dillon, Ferguson etc are dragged out again for this entirely predictable, highly contrived and unbelievable yarn. The plots have all been used before, and if you've read any two other Dillon books you'll be able to guess the next line throughout.  I bought it to read on the plane - was bored by check in and had finished it long before boarding. Give this one a miss.
This book has no plot, and is so absolutely predictable that I had to put it away without finishing.  Sean Dillon's character is getting so tired and his invincibility is sickening.  A very poorly written book.  The only good thing about this book is that I got it from the local libary and did not spend any money on it.  Mr. Higgins, it's time to retire Sean Dillon and maybe spend more than 2 weeks on writing a book??
A terrible, childishly written book with absolutely NO redeeming value as literature. Higgins loves to "speak Irish" but even that gambit fails in this trite, poorly plotted, worthless endeavour by a writer who should remain retired if he can't do any better than such trashy writing.
The plot is not believable, there is not a shred of character development, and there isn't even any descriptive atmosphere.  It shocks me that Jack Higgins and the publishers actually make money off of this puerile drivel. I shall not buy any more of his efforts.
It is hard to believe that the same author wrote The Eagle Has Landed and Edge of Danger. The writing is just plain shallow. the plot predictable. Save your money for something better.
One of the most depressing and boring books I've ever read. I got through 50% of the book waiting for a positive change but finally decided that I couldn't take one more mention of the character Vallery coughing up blood in a towel. The amount of detail given to every mundane event in this book was way over the top.  I had read one previous book by Maclean which was okay but I'm not sure I'd give him another shot.
Cheapo edition.  Pauline Baynes' wonderful illustrations are very poorly rendered. The original book had many color plates - none of them is included here.  And the lithography is terrible:  many words are so light on the page they can barely be read.  Go to alibris and get a copy of the 1950 hardcover edition.
This was so small, I couldn't read the writing!  Seriously awful.
Good novel, but awful kindle edition. Tons of typos: many misspelled words ("num" instead of "rum", "hack" instead of "back"), missing quotation marks, erroneous italicized words (often next to words that should be italicized), random bolding of individual letters,  an all-around poor-quality ebook; shame on the publisher. So many errors found on a casual read-through, I don't believe anyone at the publisher read beyond the first chapter looking for errors. Searching reviews of subsequent Sharpe novels for "kindle" shows other reviewers reporting the same problems in the ebook editions. Not worth paying full price, if at all, for such a badly edited, lazy ebook edition.  Other kindle ebooks of older novels that would undergo a similar digital conversion, like Patrick O'Brian's  Aubrey/Maturin series, are virtually error-free. What's the problem here, HarperCollins?
I hated it, pages and pages of detail about the ship, the guns etc. I found every conversation drawn out, most characters were not allowed to develop. Any  that did were so depressing they made you feel like cutting your wrist. Perhaps a better outcome than to finish reading  this book. If this novel  is typical of Alister McLean I am not a fan
This is not a bad review of the book or the author but Amazon itself.  Why has it become so hard to buy a book in audible format?  I'm about to cancel my audible subscription as it is a terrible purchase experience. Come on Amazon, stop getting in the way of me spending money here.
I couldn't read beyond page 20. Everything is described so lengthy which made me to want to die.
Long and slow
The first CD in the audiobook contains bonus material meant to be viewed on a computer.  Thanks to that, the first CD refuses to play in my truck's CD player.  The entire reason I bought this set was so we could enjoy this book on the long trips we often find ourselves making.  I ended up ripping the first CD, converting the files to MP3 files and burning them onto another CD.  While this work around took care of the problem, it seems adding the bonus material to a separate CD would have avoided the issue from the get go.  The remainder of the CD's in the set play without issue.
too many typos in the book.  proofreading the book by a human being would have eliminated the typos from the text.
If I could give this "0" starts I would...The kindle version skips pages... so I only ended up with a partial book. Not satisfied!
I allowed myself to be misled by the inexplicable 5-star ratings for this book. It was too technical, too boring (it wasn't as bad as Moby Dick, but it was close), there were too many Commodores and Admirals (who the hell was really in charge?), and nearly everyone (with one or two exceptions) died. Yes, that happens in war...it's brutal and ugly and unforgiving, but I do not choose to read about it. If you like hard-boiled war tragedy, then this book is for you. While I like many of MacLean's books, this is certainly not one of them. One reviewer said that MacLeqn's book San Andreas was a poor imitation of HMS Ulysses...I disagree. San Andreas had better characters and more hope.
This novel has been inexplicably compared to Nicholas Monsarrat's post WWII naval classic, "The Cruel Sea".  Although a fan of MacLean's I could not get beyond the first 65 pages.
For the Kindle edition: horrible transfer to electronic media, must be three or four typos per page. Great story but the editors should be ashamed to put a product like this out for sale.
The pages were very very brown. I was very disappointed with both copies of The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe which I purchased from Ripple Books. I was not able to use the books with my clients as I had planned to. I had to re--purchase the books from another seller.
Pissed, I didn't know it was going to give me a miniature sized pocket edition, if I wanted that I would of just got the app on the phone. Would appreciate a better description pointing out the size of item.
I purchased this for my classroom but it doesn't work. I have tried it on my cd player and my computer, but it just won't play.
The book was great, can't go wrong with C.S Lewis. The problem I had was I bought this book because it appeared to match the other books I have in the series that I already own. I couldn't have been more wrong. What I got was a completely different old edition. Not only was the picture deceitful, but no where in the description did it indicate that I would be getting some random edition. I thought what I saw was what I would get, that was not the case and I'm not pleased about it.
Absolute trash.  Band on hat frayed, form of hat is lopsided, and the whip pulled apart in less than an hour.  Worthless.
The stories are great. But the publisher continues to mis-number the series. A mortal sin if ever there was one.
book very well worn, pages dark
Eurocentric fetishization of British colonial rule in India. Ranges from biased to outright racist. Do yourself a favor and read some modern scholarship like Nisid Hajari instead.
A silly, silly book with unbelievable characters and no depth.  Worse, some really offensive violence.  Had it not been selected by my book club, I would never have finished the book.  Predictable and silly.
Started reading it to my granddaughter,she kept losing  interest. It rambels,rubbish.
I stopped reading the book after the first fifty pages. I was very interested in learning the historical background of Chile but I did not enjoy the characters chosen for this book.
The print we received did not include chapter 1-3.
I have read this book many a times. Even if you doubt the facts and conversations citied, it is written exquisitely. HOWEVER, IT IS OUTRAGEOUS THAT AMAZON IS CHARGING ANY KIND OF MONEY FOR THE KINDLE VERSION! Not only that, THE KINDLE VERSION PRESENTLY AVAILABLE SHOULD NOT EVEN BE OFFERED FOR FREE! Had I know that it will completely ruin the reading experience, I would have never bought the Kindle version, especially since I already have the hard copy. Shameful and disappointing on the part of Amazon.
what a joke its like 2 inches by 2 1/2 inches making it hard to read.
I received the book promptly, but I was disappointed: I had expected something in good condition, as it was for a friend's gift.  But instead, all the pages were yellowed and it looked sad.  But I had no time to order another book.  Hope that never happens again!
Not what I was looking for
I was swayed by the glowing reviews on the cover and Oprah's recommendation.  I was hoping for an exciting historical saga with plot twists and good character development.  What I got was an endless procession of narrative paragraphs that often run on for a page and a half.  Not enough action and very little dialogue.  I like pretty writing and enjoyed learning something about Chile and what life was like there in the mid 1800's, but it was too much endlessly detailed description.  I must have a story first.  The people are character sketches that are described to us.  Let me see who they are by their actions and keep the prose brief.  Oh... and maybe it is the translator's fault, but after one endless sentence I had to stop and say, "What the heck did that even mean?"  Pretty writing does not make it worth reading hundreds of pages.  Make me want to know what happens next and I'll fly through the book.
Horrible bad grammar boring story violent parts such a bad book. Don't waist your money trust me. It's a horrible book.
and House of the Spirits is one of my favorite books. I don't even believe she wrote this boring, loquacious crap. Made it through about 200 pages....
seriously?
I would just like to warn people to stay away from this book.  It doesn't even deserve one star...I normally like Allende, especially her short story 'And of Clay We Are Created,' but this book was predictable, boring, and incredibly long-winded.  What really irritated me was that after wading through all of the romantic muck and life-changing revelations, it doesn't even have a good ending!  It's like she got tired of the book (can't blame her there--if it was that tedious to read it, I can't imagine what it was like to actually WRITE it), so she tacked on a chapter that could be miscontrued as a conclusion.  There are many much better coming of age stories out there, not to mention better stories by Allende, so DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME. ...
Purchased from  indoobestsellers. What these guys don't tell you that this is Pocket edition; very tiny letters and extremely hard to read
Interesting subject matter, but it's hard to make it through the book because the writing is so awful. The author is fascinated with sexual references and what he must think are dynamic descriptions, which are really just overwrought, hackneyed, trite tropes. Seems like the subject matter is exciting enough all by itself, if you just tell the story. But the writing detracts from the topic.
Very disappointed
The premise of this story was promising, but it just never connected.  I did not find the characters to be believable.  I did enjoy the historical and cultural information, but I was never able to quite believe this story.  These people never fleshed out into humanity and their story seemed to go nowhere.  I have read worse, but I picked up this book with hopes of a good read.  Finished it right away but with a sense of disappointment.
I couldn't make it through this entire book.  It is sooooo boring.  The author seems to talk in circles, if you read the first 40 pages then you get the idea of the entire book.
Dont waste your time!!  It should come with a magnifying glass,very very small!!!
This is my perspective of the book.....It started out good...then the best part is the voyage...and from there on it was a big downfall!  At the end..she totally forgets about what she is looking for, and falls in love  with an idiot of a character. The worst part of all is the last remark.  I  read it because House of Spirits had recieved so many high rankings, I  decided that I should read another book of hers, but this one is awful, and  It does not compel me to read her other books! This was an OVERALL HORRIBLE  BOOK! DoNt WaSte yOUr TiMe!
totally out dated
I should have listened to the review that warned me that Daughter of Fortune was dull.  It was dull. The book lacked vitality and substance. Eliza as a character was never really fleshed out; she was lacking in  character and was totally uninteresting.  The story seemed disjointed.  I'm  sorry I spent the money on this one.
Its obvious there is a lack of proof reading in this book. Lost interest when the writer went way off track from the story line. It just felt like the writer was trying to fill pages with worthless words. The book is not worth the cost.
I used to teach high school, and after listening to my ninth grade girls ooh and ahh about miss allende, I felt obligated to at least be in the conversation. And, like the sad little boy with his nose pressed against the window desperately wanting to be with the in crowd not realizing that  they were as vapid and venal as could be, I took the plunge, dropped good  money, only to find, or fail to find, an ounce of quality between the  covers. I wanna be 14 again
Extremely disappointing!  The only redeeming factor was the historical content and the somewhat interesting look at the gold rush California years.  The story (if one finds a story) in itself was choppy and just  sloppily written as if the author became bored with it herself.  Parts of  the book were just too unbelievable to even imagine and the ending was  ludicrous with too many loose ends.  Come on, Oprah....we know you like  books with strong female characters, but next time could you please pick  one that at least tells a good, believable story!
'Brilliant' says The New York Times! Did they give this novel to an Editorial Assistant to review? They can not be serious surely? Daughter of Fortune is written with no warmth and where is the beautiful prose-like  words that we have become accustomed to with Allende? Nowhere to be seen.  The characters were so compellingly boring that, can I admit to you dear  Amazon surfers, after the first 38 pages, I returned the novel to my  bookstore and asked for a refund. The general consensus seems to be with  so-called respected media reviewers that they hail a novel just because the  author has been revered in the past. Surely someone out there must agree  with me that this story does not belong to Allende - the words are empty. I  wouldn't even recommend this novel for the beach - trust me.
This is the worst book ever don't read it or watch the movie. This book is stupid and very annoying
I was hoping that being a Hunter fan that I'd enjoy this book but it was a really difficult read. It's slow and not any fun or even insightful. What great subject matter not to have a really cool story but it never came together at all. This is a pass and I must admit I couldn't even finish the book.
I have to agree with many readers that this is not a good read, boring etc.  I tried sticking with it but is is just poor writing and layout. I would suggest Outlaws  (one man's rise through the savage world of renegade bikers) if you want to really enjoy a good book about bikers.
This book is the most boring read of the hells angels that I have read. this being the 3rd, of hells angels
This book was drawn out and had no action to it. Just a rambling rambling page after page of boring stories
DO NOT ORDER - this book is 3-1/8 x 4-5/8; very small and the print is TINY - about 3 point font.  Impossible to read if your eyes are over 50.
Reads like a boring book report that is full of propoganda. Waste of time. Stopped less than halfway in.  I kept waiting for it to get interesting. Unfortunately it never did
Guide is so small I need a super magnifying glass to read it A complete waste of money
The author and the informant put a lot of self love into this garbage book.  Just... terrible.  Tait (the informant) wanted to play secret agent, but lacked the discipline to be an actual law enforcement agent; so he turned rat.  Lavigne (the author) wanted to write fiction, but lacked the imagination.  Thus a partnership of convenience was born.  Their lovechild was this tripe.
i bought this book a few years ago and began reading it as soon as i got home.  i got eally bored with it, really fast.  i stopped reading it about half-way through, and have not picked it back up since.  this guy became an informant long before he could have done anything for the HA that you would find interesting to read about.  dont buy.
It's very hard to get a factual or non-biased read from any of this author's books.  Even his commentary on TV is awful.  I found it very hard to not be disgusted by his diction.
I liked but as it went on it seemed so old and written very weird but other than that it was a good story
If you're expecting an introspective study of a complete infiltrate on the Hell's Angels day to day, forget about it, this is basicly the report of two big reunions of the Angels in the early 60's, with some articles of the time. And ONLY till that date, no further. TERRIBLY DISAPPOINTING. Tedious, boring, in fact didn't finished it.
I have never taken so long to read a book in my life!  Boring, boring, boring!  Even if you skip the many pages of legal mumbo jumbo, you still have to read Tony Tait's constant whining and moaning sections.  I can't believe this author even wrote about this guy!  Generally, I find the subject of Hells Angels to be entertaining but this book was an exception to the rule.  Anthony Tait manages to make Hells Angels seem totally boring but if the truth be told, Anthony Tait is the most boring subject I've ever read about.
Never in the history of Bikers has there been written such worthless  textualmatter.  Can not be followed from page to page and has no  praisworthiness what so ever. Next time I'll spend my money supporting the "Big Red Machine".
I rarely able to choose the worst books of an author. But if I have to choose the worst of Christie, this one will be it. The spy story did not interest me at all. I tried to finish it, since I'm a big fan of her, but it was hard not to fall asleep.
Michael York overly emotes so that, for instance, Peter is always shouting and Lucy talks softly. I am constantly adjusting the sound volume. This is a great book, but it is exhausting and annoying trying to follow Michael York. I wish the producers had modulated the volume. I do not have this issue with any of my other audio books. For a contrast, try Christopher Timothy's reading of James Herriott's "All Creatures Great and Small." Timothy also does a dramatic reading with different voices, but the volume is reasonable and the voices are plausible. I get the impression York was trying to treat reading "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" like a Shakesperean stage production. It is overblown.
A lot of pages for a lack luster ending.
If you are an Agatha Christie fan do yourself a huge favor and do not read this book. An absurd story. Sad. The only Christie book I didn't like and enjoy. If you're not sure, read the literary critics reviews, who are right this time.
The biggest disappointment from an Agatha Christie book I have ever read.  Boring, boring, crazy, unreal story.  Not even a mystery.  Gibberish.  Must have been losing it by the time she wrote this..  Save your time and your money.
Agatha Christie has a few types of novels: the classic whodunit, usually with an amateur detective; a spy story, ditto; and the worldwide conspiracy. Some of her worldwide conspiracies are quite good. This is not. Passenger to Frankfurt begins auspiciously, with a mysterious stranger in an airport. Then it jumps between transcriptions of meetings of politicos, random continental jaunts, more strange meetings with the yellow-faced Mr. Robinson, a wonderful new age drug, and of course, Aunt Mathilda. The plot is difficult to follow, the characters uninteresting, and Christie's contempt for young people is never more apparent.  Avoid this book.
Boring
this had to have been the worst Agatha Chritie book I have ever read and I've read just about all of them! Poor plot and poor ending.
I would not recommend this book to anyone who likes Agatha Christie mysteries. It started off quite well but by chapter 3 I found myself skipping pages until I just gave up and read the ending.
I have heard it said that LDame Christie was a little batty in the last few years of her life. Well, this, her last novel, is clear proof of that assertion. The dialogue is vague, the plot overly laboured, and the novel is so overdone with noir that the characters are barely even two-dimensional. Awful. That is all.
I adore Agatha Christie, and I've really enjoyed her other espionage novels, but this one is terribly written. it's hard to believe she's written it.
This book started out going nowhere and took too long to get there. The book was written like the English talk; very fast and clipped. It was boring and it seemed like a lot of words just thrown together.
As with the other reviewers that gave this work a low rating, I am also a fan. Perhaps, as some have said, it is the departure from the much loved Poirot, Marple and even Tommy and Tuppence that makes this a less than enjoyable read.  In any event, the book started out fine but soon found its' way into a plot that was so convoluted and unbelievable that I finally gave up.  I did skip to the end and found that even there, the wrap-up was nothing that gave me reason to regret the time I saved by not reading the remainder of the book.
This mystery is too slowly paced to be of much joy for a reader. However, it is vintage Christie so it is worth reading as a mystery if one cares to make the slog.
Fortunately, this was the last of all the Agatha Christie novels that I read, and I did so only to know I'd read them all; otherwise I'd never have known what a great writer she was in the 1920's and 30's.  While several of the books written toward the end of her life (Elephants Can Remember, Endless Night, etc.) are slow, poorly imagined and dull, this  has all of those defects PLUS a preposterous plot.  I have always observed that her 80-year-old mysteries have a timeless quality to them -- except for telegrams and typewriters, they could take place almost in any decade.  So it is interesting to note that this awful 1970 novel is also so dated.
I've always been a huge Agatha Christie fan, but this book is a complete departure from her usual work and I hate to say it, but it falls short. I always finish reading a book if I start it, but there were times when I was really tempted to just put this one down. If you're looking for classic Christie, this is probably not the book for you. I found the beginning quite good, but ended up plodding through the rest of it.
This book [isn't good]! I love Agatha's books, but this one I only read until the end to see how it would end. It is NOT worth reading it, unless you like subjects like the cold war and international politics approached in an childish manner. This was actually one of the worst books ever!!!
This book doesn't even deserve to have agatha christie's name on the cover. It's by far the most dissapointing book A.C. has ever written. I finished the book, an yet I can't find the mistery in it, it's so ovbious from the start, that reading the first 30 pages and the last 10, you're not missing anything and you're not waisting your time reading it.  I'm very dissapointed by it and I wouldn't recommend this one to anybody. Truly Agatha Christie's WORST.
Nothing wrong with the content, it's classic, but the book material is ultra low end for a hard back: light hardback cover, super-thin paper (basically transparent), spine has no reinforced cloth strip, spine glued with no stitching. Dust cover okay. Don't bother buying the hardback series from this publisher. I can't see it standing up to much more wear than a paperback, which this book will get no doubt.
The "see inside this book" is not accurate at all!  I was looking forward to all the beautiful colored pictures shown in the see inside this book for this purchase.  Instead, this is a black and white book w/some movie photos in the middle.  Not what is promised here!
I was interested in this book until I read a preview of the prologue. It said the Berlin Wall fell in 1999! I'm sure it is probably a typo, but in this day and age people may read that and think that is a fact. If something like that is wrong in the first few pages of this book, then how can I trust the rest of the information presented in it?
Never received this book. Could not read because it was never delivered.
it is so tiny I can even read the darn thing....the book is like 3 inches by 3 inches
This book, one more in a continuation of the Emma Harte saga proves that it's difficult to create an encore that rivals the performance of the wonderful 'A Woman of Substance'. This book had too many characters, storylines and insufficient detail. I had the feeling the writing was rushed, written too quickly to get it to press and not enough time was taken to give both the characters and storyline the depth that Emma's descendants deserve and that was originally created in the first book. I thought the twin tower replay was in poor taste and was both overdramatized and underutilized in the story line. This book was, in short, boring and disappointing. A pity, because so much more could have been done with this series, as I have found that each successive book is rather lackluster.
I really should not be reviewing this book as I quit reading it after the first chapter.  There were simply too many characters to keep straight.  The list of family members preceding the start of the book lists 57 members.  I started with good intentions, but by page 9 I was thinking . . . who cares about all of these rich, beautiful people.
I agree with other reviewers that this well is dry and the family is no longer interesting.  But that disappointment is mild compared to the disgust I felt that she used the Twin Towers tragedy to plump up her character's adventures.  First time I'd seen our national tradedy experienced by fictional characters and it is in very poor taste and so lacking in sensitivity that I won't read her again.
This book is pocketsize, no where mentioned in ad, print is so small it is difficult to read
After two attempts to order and receive an audio version of The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, I am still without this product which I had purchased for my daughter for Christmas.  Even though I am hopeful that Amazon will be able to locate the source of the faulty packaging, my purchase will not be replaced.  I will have to take my business elsewhere for this product.  Needless to say, I am disappointed.  S. Fox
I love this particular book in the series and was sooooo disappointed when I began listening to it.  I could not believe that the producer of the audio tapes wasn't cringing as I was every time Michael York slipped into his Aslan, lion voice....  It was really pathetic......I agree with everything the previous reviewer said about the really poor job done on this reading.  p.u.
I wish they will specify the size, it's a pocket size. Very very hard to read.
Case of mistaken identity. I thought it was a cd.
To small
The kindle version downloaded does not reflect the description' it does not include the new urban survival
This was to be quite frank the most depressing autobiography I have ever read. We read of a sordid life full of self-loathing and bumbling from one insanity to another. No vision. The attempts at humor are so dark to be totally unfunny. I get the feeling Tom wrote this to validate his own self-loathing and in my case it suceeded as I end up disliking this person intensely, not just for his morals and lack of inner strength but for removing my vision of him as a funny talented at times actor.  Not one for faint hearts and not a book to enjoy. Neither is their any depth, what are described are a series of befuddled mixed up scenes which go nowhere to a answer the question of the title.  Who is Tom Baker? Answer from this book is an almost continously depressed social inadequate, of negligible talent who somehow has survived despite being totally screwed up by events in his life. Not what I wanted to read.
Okay, I rarely say this about a book, but this book was so boring, I couldn't even finish it! I could not relate to it what- so- ever. If you want an interesting series with adventure and a magical twist with some  creativity, read the Harry Potter series.
This book gives very little information. Every topic covered in this book could be its own book, but its not and nothing is discussed in much detail or depth.
I'm sure the 7 short stories by Agatha Christie are excellent as usual.  The problem is that if you are looking for the Audio Edition read by JOAN HICKSON, this is NOT read by her.  Amazon is listing that she reads it, but this information is incorrect.  If you look carefully at the picture provided it shows that it is read by Geraldine McEwan.  This may be a fine rendition, but it is not THE Miss Marple as performed by Joan Hickson in audio and TV performances.
There was an error with the order and the company refused to correct it up front- forcing me to have to deal with returns and credits- i was trying to get a hardback and got a paperback copy
Book was defective from the publisher - Briliante sent another copy and it also was defective.  How does that happen twice?  Ugghh!
if the description had been more detailed, i would not have bought this book!! the writing is too small! misleading, I was under the impression that is was a normal size SAS survival guide, willl not do business with this person ever again.  Tony
Disjointed to the point of incoherence. I couldn't tolerate this novel. Lacking any discernible plot, it dragged on and on with myriad "characters" injected here and there, jumping from one time frame to another, with strangely capitalized words and others that were fused--as though they were typos, but they weren't; they were part of the author's pretentious "style." As for winning the Booker Prize; it seems to me that bloated prose in a "lyrical" and "literary" style outweighs coherent storytelling, characterization or paced plotting.
Would not recommend...14 other of my Book Club members say the same thing.  Story is sad, but that's not the issue.  It is not well written, drags on in parts and the intertwining of various tragic family situations.....may have been a healing activity for the author, but not one that needed to be shared with others.
Not my favorite . Colorful language but very hard to follow that was the consensus of our book club . All professional women
it's rediculous exploitation of the zombie apocolypse and related fads going around. this book will not save your life in any situation. put your energy into making the world a better place instead of fantasizing your rambo
The Op Centre series is going from bad to worse, I have brought all Tom Clancy's books (all the earlier ones from Red October to my last Red Rabbit) but after I happen to read the first Op Centre book I stopped buying them and just got them from the library, hoping that they would get better and that they would be worth buying again, unfortunately that didn't happen.  This last one is so bad that it is the last one I will get from the library and just stop reading Tom Clancy's books all together.  Always very sad to see a successful author run out of ideas and continue for the money. I would wager that in the long run you will loose money Tom as people will just stop reading your novels.
Hated it , gave up after about 2 chapters , something I never  do. ridiculous metaphors that go on and on. people you don't care about .
Truly awful How Clancy can put his name on juvenile trash like this, even  now when the material he writes himself is worthy of five stars(i.e RAINBOW  SIX, RED STORM RISING among others) is beyond me. The story might have had  real potential in a proper Clancy novel, with a takeover of the United  Nations. It could have been awesome if thought out intelligently, but is  totally wasted. Renegade 'peacekeepers' turn terrorists(!!) and kidnap a  children's orchestra(!!), start killing the hostages and THEN start  bargaining? Come on! And of course, one of the hostages just happens to be  one of Op Center director Paul Hood's kids! Ho-hum. Crap-Center strikes  again. I could write an entire book about how bad this one is.
One of the worst books I ever tried to read!
overrated
Books like this one exaggerate things to appeal to the readers who gave never visited if known the region, they play with sentiments as the reader us not likely to visit Kerela and other locations mentioned in the book to verify the ground reality. If one likes to read about exaggerated narration of gruesome, sorry state of people living in  underdeveloped nations (I wonder why would one do that?) then borrow the book. No pint in buying as this us strictly 'Read-once-only' book.
I did not like this book, hard to read, I usually loveIindian authors, but not this one.
It is haphazard. Goes back and forth until ur giddy. Too graphic. My first book by her and very disappointed. Has left me not wanting to try any of her other books.
I did not like the information contained in this book.  I bought it based on the recommendation of others.  Perhaps they were paid professional reviewers???  I don't know.  I do know I no longer own the book.
This was one of the most 'disjointed' books I have ever read.  I struggled to get through this book.  No plot, no flow at all.  Would not recommend.  I hope her other book The Ministry of Utmost Happiness is better, as I purchased both at the same time.
This is a difficult book. It is very well written in the description of nature but I do not understand the author's need to constantly jump time. In one sentence one character is a child and in the next she is a grown up. Why do that ? Is that a gimmick ? I noticed other authors do this nowadays....
My whole book club did not care for this book.  None of the character were noteworthy enough to care about.  Some times when it switched back and forth from different times past and present, it was hard to follow. We had difficulty with all the names.  One thing it did do was give us a little history of India.
Very well written but too depressing for me. Few things are possitive.  IRMA DICKINSON
I just could not get past chapter 2 and it was a struggle for me to get that far with the author's habit of jumping all over the place.  I could never connect with the characters and develop an interest to keep reading.  It was picked for our bookclub and no-one liked it, those that could get through it said it was just depressing.......  I wish I could get my money back.
This book is screwed up, perverted and disturbing. Don't waste your time with it.
I tried to like this book but I just couldn't. The characters were unlikable and it moved extremely slow with illogical jumps.
This is the first time I've written a review without finishing the book.  That's how much I couldn't stand it.  This book is so swollen with imagery and metaphor that there's no room left for story or character development.  And there were so many characters, none of whom were particularly sympathetic, thrown at you in the first pages that it was tedious to keep them separate.  I just don't understand the fuss over this one.
Thin plot, poor character development, tortured prose. I read this because it was highly recommended. The title is intriguing, but the story fell flat. I was very disappointed. A Passage to India and Son of the Circus deal with similar issues and are much better written. I do not understand how this won any awards.
Gimmicky and tritely told, although it's an important story.  Her writing is like a first draft: clever, repetitive, easy, but not literary in the least.  If she were to edit, all the gimmicks would come out but every page is full of them and they're really distracting from what could be a deeply experienced read.
This is a simple approach to an oh-so-literary novel.  Take a sordid story with ugly characters in an exotic setting.  Add multiple incidents of sexual and emotional abuse.  Use grim and grimy settings, lots of scatological detail.  Smash everybody down with colonialism, communism, and hypocrisy.  Ok, your story is written.  Now, cut it up with scissors.  Toss the pieces in the air, reassemble, and publish.  This only gets a star at all, because the writer has some unique metaphors.
One of the most depressing books I have ever read. Every character is depressing. I did not like the writer's style. Would never recommend it to anyone.
This story was difficult to follow.
Did not like the story line, plot, characters. A very forgettable book.
Archer has about 3 tricks he likes to use in this book. With 14 stories, this gets old. By then end I was reading the first couple pages and then skipping to the end of the story to read the clever little ending. A very unfulfilling way to read. I just got the feeling that the author found himself to be very clever. With a novel there can be character development and such that will mitigate this fact, but in a short story if the gimick is weak the rest will fail as well. With the exception of "The Endgame" I found the stories quite forgettable.
Complete and utter rubbish. The only book I have thrown away.
I can't write this way nor read this book.  The narrative is boring.....sadly, a waste and no space in my bookshelf for this type of writing.
This is an intelligent book with pretty words.  That being said, at times it seems like it is trying to be intelligent for the sake of being intelligent. I honestly had no idea what was happening at most points in the book, and I am not an inexperienced reader. I have four years of literature classes under my belt, and I can honestly say that this book is one of the few I have really not understood the point of. Perhaps the point of this book is to provide out-of-context snapshots of one familys life. If that is it, then it does it gloriously, as there is no context for anything that happens.
This book is so disjointed and just all over the place.  If you can make you way through all the wordiness, the story beneath is uninteresting.
so, I finally completed this book which is acclaimed by all my literature lecturers and friends as one of it's kind.. To be honest, like Desai's "bye bye blackbird" this one just made me yawn so many times that I actually lost count.. Maybe interesting to others, but I had to sincerely force myself to complete this one... not my cup of tea! and not my taste, either! The text is centered around this Kerala family of Ayemenem's who are just going through their own tensions and tragedies and , at one point of time, reader actually starts questioning his/ her own sanity. I am not a great fan of these sort of tragic novels so, accordingly, this one just fell flat on my expectations.. Ooh , wait a second! I never had any expectations with it in the first place....
This was suggested by one of our Readers' Group members for our next meeting.  I and several others tried diligently to get through this tedious and slow plot.  Who wants to read a lengthy explanation of a child using a public toile?  I tried to imagine the point-of-view as being similar to that of Faulkner's Benji in "The Sound and the Fury," but this author never succeeds in bringing the reader into the child's eyes.
I seriously hate this book. NEVER READ IT YOU WILL SERIOUSLY REGRET IT! It is very confusing, has a terrible plot line, and it's seriously disgusting. Never get it. If you do, don't blame me. I did warn you.
My boy scout hand book has just as much information as this thing did , not worth it , do your home work and rsearch your book choices
How this won the Booker Prize I'll never know.  Wordy -- why use one adjective when three or four will do?  (Was this even edited?!)  Only one of the characters is admirable, let alone likeable.  It's as if the author wanted to rid herself of bleak thoughts and decided to write them all down -- and then somehow convinced a publisher that this is "literature."  I would not recommend this to anyone I like.
I was hopeful this would be an enjoyable book, but was sadly disappointed. As a friend advised, if a book doesn't grab me in the first 50 pages, I'm prone to not finish it. The first 50 pages of this book seemed eternal, but I got there. I almost didn't finish it, but since it's my book club selection, I really didn't want to stop, so I skipped to the last 75 pages and found I didn't really miss much in the middle. I skimmed where I could, and finally got to the anticlimactic ending. Why this book got the Booker award is beyond me.  The story dragged with little plot, and no redeeming theme. It came across like simply a very dysfunctional family story with sadness, loss and death. The writing was disappointing with contrived idioms, the use of oddly placed capital letters, and lots of fragmented sentences. And, it was much too long for the story. As one other reviewer said, it would have been better as a short story, but even then, I don't think I would have enjoyed it.  A sad tale with a very contrived, pretentious style. Quite disappointing indeed.
i received the wrong book
We read this book for our book club.  We picked the book because it has won awards and gotten good reviews.  I suppose that is because it is a very artsy book, lots of description, symbolism, etc.  I had to, however, force myself to finish reading it.  The characters are all unlikeable and the twins are down right weird.  The author dwells on the unpleasantness and attempts to shock the reader.  The feelings that are produced by this read could just as well be obtained by going to the county dump.
I was quite looking forward to getting this book until what I actually found in the mailbox was the tiny gem version.....  Quite a letdown.
This book was so bad our book club nixed it just a week before our meeting and chose to just read and discuss some short stories instead.  It was difficult to follow,and slow, slow,slow in story development.  In some cases it is worth the wait, but not in this case! Maybe we aren't as open minded as we thought we were; but we couldn't handle this one!
Appallingly written, so many unnecessary "tricks" with language.  Gave up after a third way through.  A waste of several good trees! Cannot fathom why it ever won any prize at all!
Could not get into this book. All the positive reviews must be from English teachers. Felt like a school assignment.
After reading so many wonderful reviews of this book, I thought I had to read it. The book started out slowly and it was really fractured in the sense that it jumped to the present then to the past, then to something completely unrelated to the plot at that time. I thought it was a quirky way to present the story but went along with it because I expected it to turn into this amazing story that I heard so many reviews say it was. I tried, but never got there. After reading almost halfway through the book, I simply couldn't take it anymore. It was so incredibly boring, confusing, and filled with events that weren't even connected in any way that I couldn't take it anymore. I gave up. There's only been a handful of books I could not read from beginning to end, and this is one of them. I gave it a chance to grow and see the characters develop, thrive, etc, but it never happened. I wish I could have my time back so I could have spent it on more worthy books.
I tried to read this book three different times. The furthest page I have reached is 100 and I gave up. I just don't care about these characters and it's hard to keep track of who the characters are. I was constantly trying to figure out who a character was and then all of a sudden a new character comes into the picture and I honestly didn't see what their relevance was.  This book is just boring. Yes, there was some good imagery, although I wouldn't call it "amazing" like some of the other reviewers do. I'm actually surprised to read that from some readers. I feel like I read a completely different book.  Anyway, I feel like I wasted my time with this book. I will not attempt to finish it.
Slow and depressing, I kept turning the pages expecting more.  And it kept being slow and depressing.  And then disturbing.  Such a highly reviewed book, I have to say is on my top 10 of books I hate and will never reccommend.
Like so many others before me, by the time I stubbornly finished this book I didn't give a damn about a single character (maybe Velutha). In fact, I was so tired of the whole lot of them that I wished them ill!  I was upset with myself that I didn't give up on this book after my second try.  This book is a short story on steroids; freakishly larger than it should be.
The book doesnt contain much info about Ceasers life . It has so much analysis and theories that may or may not be true . I am dragging myself through the book . I don't think I will be able to even finish it
Maybe my fault for getting the book in the first place but I believe that some escapism is good . This book depressed me and made me want to go back to reality because its more lively and cheerful . And there is no moral of the story . At least not one that I could use or want to teach my children anyway .
If you are troubled by insomnia, by all means buy this book.  Put it on your night stand and you may find that it will solve your problem.  However, in the end you may prefer pills.  The author may well be one of the leading experts on ancient history as the book jacket claims.  He is a professor at the I do not recommend this book at all.  In fairness, I couldn't get further than the first three chapters, so maybe it gets better later on in the book.  He spends these chapters mostly rambling without a point.  He has the very annoying habit of opening every paragraph with four questions and doesn't even begin to answer any of them.  Even with a background understanding of the politics of the late Republic, Meier's questions hardly entice the reader to continue.  Like many other reviewers, for a great historical biography, go with Peter Green's Alexander of Macedon and for a good introduction into the late Republic, go with Holland's Rubicon.  Both are much more enjoyable than this book.
I feel as if I've lost a battle when I can't finish a book but this one I put down after 2/3rds of the way through.  I had little empathy for any of the characters and felt removed from scenes as if I was watching from a dark hallway...one filled with filth and obnoxious smells.  A number of reviewers commented on Roy's magical style of writing...so what if it doesn't get to the point.  Read Lahiri instead.
The characters are all scummy, and nothing but miserable things fill their lives.  The only "good" character in the book is the half-English girl, who dies.
Was not expecting to need a magnifying glass to read it. Did it say that in the listing? My mistake?
The work is disjointed in sequence, petty in perspective, and is more interested in 'debunking' Julius Caesar than with delivering an informative and accurate account of events. A waste of money.
This book was incredibly hard to follow and very difficult to read.  I usually enjoy Booker prize winners but not this one!  I do not recommend it to anyone.
My friend gave me this novel to borrow because of its "beautiful language."  I started reading it about six months ago and have about 40 pages left with no intention of finishing.  To be blunt, this book rambles incessantly.  Relationship scenes are more creepy than touching, it's hard to even care about the fate of the characters.  The novel winds in and out of so many multiple page metaphors that it's easy to forget what the point was in the first place.  I found myself rolling my eyes at ridiculous wording, especially when it was completely irrelevant to the topic.
I always make it a point to read the Booker Prize winner selections and normally I am not disappointed.  This book was definitely a major disappointment however.  As an avid reader who generally reads at least one book a week; this book two me nearly three weeks to get through.  As I was reading, I would find myself mentally making grocery lists, remembering things I needed to get done, etc. because I was so bored. There were several times I would be ready to throw it in the garbage and then I would read the reviews and think, "Well, maybe it will get better soon."  Forget it!  It didn't.  I love me an adjective as much as the next person but this was ridiculous.  Most of the time, the writer would go off on some adjective-ridden tangent and three pages later you would be left trying to remember what had been going on in the story.  A story with no plot I might add.  And if I read one more fragmented sentence I was going to scream.  Two hundred pages of flowery descriptions aside, you found yourself not caring about the characters at all nor caring about what happened to them.  I could go on for three hundred pages with how much I didn't like this book but I'll be smarter than the author and stop with a final recommendation - don't waste your time.  There are thousands of other wonderful books out there just waiting to be read.
I read this book based on all the positive, glowing reviews it rec'd. Well I should have paid more attention to the one-star reviews because I completely agree with most of them. This book was so cumbersome. I insisted on finishing it, hoping it would pick up or that something incredible might happen. Well nothing happened. I almost feel like maybe I missed something in there among all her fancy talk and poetic-like writing. I just didn't "get" it. Maybe it was over my head, I don't know. I feel like the author really was all over the place as far as characters and times are concerned. I couldn't tell what was present day and what was the past. I thought about rereading it because I may better understand it a second time but decided that I better not waste any more time on this novel. The Amazon review says that Roy's writing is very dreamlike and sensual. I do agree with this to an extent but it was not intelligible. I like dreamlike writing, but more along the lines of Haruki Murakami. Overall, I felt this was a pretty big waste of my reading time.
If you think your life is miserable, read this book, and you'll realise that you're not doing too bad (or at the very least, everything will appear better once you finally finish this travesty of a novel).  Our book club recently read this as our book of the month. Everyone in the group found it difficult to get through. Although the story has some interesting parts (namely the last paragraph - although few people managed to get that far in the novel), the overwhelming and excruciating verbosity drags the already depressing story (and reader) down even more.  If the Booker Prize is awarded to the novel which wastes the most space on a bookshelf, then The Crap of Small Things is a deserving winner. There can be no other justification for why this novel received such a prestigious award. Do yourself a favour and avoid this novel at ALL COSTS! Alternatively, if you're chasing a painful way in which to waste a major part of your life, then read this novel and enjoy the compelling twists and turns that make this novel a spectacular way to punish yourself for your wrong-doings.  Eight people attended our book club. The average rating was 2/10. Read this book at your own risk.
I had high hopes for this book when I picked it up. Halfway through this book and I find that I have to force myself to turn the next page. If you love reading interesting and in depth books that you can understand, this is not the book for you. The author's words are a spiral of mumbo jumbo that drags on and on. I often found myself re-reading the same sentence 3 or 4 times in order to grasp the meaning but it never comes. If I had to compare this book to something, I would compare it to a long a strange dream... it doesn't make sense and it's not something you would remember after 5 minutes!
I think a lot of people either really loved this book or hated it. It just didn't appeal to me. I didn't like how slow it was or how the story was revolved around that silly secret. I read this after reading a lot of Rohinton Mistry though. Maybe my expectations were too high, but it just wasn't for me.
I've tried on several occasions to read this and just couldn't get through. I found it slow and tedious, and just couldn't get invested in the characters or the plot (whatever the plot was, since it didn't really seem like there was one). After reading all these great reviews though, I must be missing something...
I think the novel lacks a purpose from sharing it's 'emotional' side from the begenning. The first couple of pages are perhaps a flawed copy of Gerald Durrel's great work. Next, the author goes against the 1st rule of writing: she has told everything and shown nothing. The book is too slow and does not engage the reader. It rings a hollow and a rather disgusting tone of the Indian culture and setting. The emotions are not well delivered and only the disgusting scenes have been woven into a sick patchwork of words. The characters are no more than caricatures.  By the way I am from Pakistan, so I know Indian setting better than most of those who I presume have read this book, and thus I believe that it could have been presented in a much much better manner.
I found this book to be a real disappointment. Overall, I think this woman needed to edit and revise her book. The characters were not people that I would ever want to spend time with and the plot was twisted around. At the end, I sat and figured out how the story happened, in order, but I don't think a writer should ever require so much work on the part of the reader for something that is just basic structure. Also, there was a lot of meaningless description that didn't move the story forward. I am sad that I paid money for this book and the only thing I can think of that would help me get my moneys worth at this point would be to use it to heat my home this winter! I gave one star because of the wonderful book that could have been, if she had revised a few times.  If you want to read good stories, skip this and go buy Jhumpa Lahiri's Interpreter of Maladies.  Edited review on February 12, 2008  Well, it's a couple years later and this still stands as the worst book I've ever read. My husband didn't believe me that it could really be as bad as I said it was, so he read it. To make a long story short, at the end he insisted that we follow through with burning it, which we did.  This is the only book I've ever set fire to. It was just THAT bad.
I began reading The God of Small Things expecting another insight into India. However, I found the book to be confusing and never was drawn into the story. Skip this book and move onto Jhump Lahiri's books, Interpreter of Maladies and The Namesake.
This book was full of way too many descriptions and flowery language that I was bored to death and couldn't keep my eyes open. At a total of over 300 pages, it could be decreased to about 50 pages of actual information. I do not recommend this and I have no idea why someone would call this a good book. I am definately questioning the booker prize.
Not read
I had one question after finishing this book:  Why?  I picked up Roy's first novel after hearing and seeing it lauded everywhere as the most recent "Must Read".  Well, I was unimpressed.  First of all, I found Roy's writing style to be very choppy and unenjoyable.  It is written in the tone and speech patterns, I think, of an 8-year-old child, probably the main character when she was younger.  This was not charming or endearing; it was annoying and choppy.  Instead of getting a mature observation, opinion, or commentary on social values/life, I was left to anticipate with dread the random repetitions, and Capitalized Insignificant Non-comments (such as "An Ammu Shaped Hole in the Universe") that Roy uses throughout her book.  Surely such a life altering event is worthy of a more profound, or even just more thoughtful, observation.  Secondly, I found the story to be enormously depressing.  Not only does one event destroy their childhood, but we find in the last few chapters that their adult lives, their family, and their hometown has suffered also.  And most of all, I found the use of profanity by the voice of an 8-year-old narrator to be extremely disturbing. In the same breath as "An Ammu Shaped Hole..." this child is using some really bad language.  I read classics to escape everyday life, not return to it.  Had Roy not stooped to using this language, I might have been more forgiving of the other flaws in her book.  I did not particularly enjoy this read and I probably won't recommend it to anyone.  That said, this is Roy's first novel, and I do still have hope for more enjoyable novels in the future from her.
The content of the book seems good but the book arrived severly bent. I had to hammer it out on the table and still is in a weird shape. Not sure why I receved a book that is in worse condition than most used books when I purchased a new book. Giving 1 star and probably will return for a new one.
Reading Arundhati Roy's effort is an uphill endeavour.  Illustrated here is the ever recurring limitation of 98% of novels as an art form: saying very little - and at length.  Mere crumbs of insight - surrounded by repetition, waffle and padding.  In telling the story of a family and others struck by tragic events, the style is flowery, over-written and relentlessly irritating.  If it is a point-of-view narrative device, it fails.  If the novel is allegory then it's a glib attempt. The ornate Dylan Thomas-like stylistic devices bog the whole ponderous venture down.  Get on with it women!  Life's too short for this bombastic exercise in the superficial. You just want to get to the end and write the whole purchase off as the mistake that it is.  No surprise that it fooled the Man-Booker's judges - all too keen to grab the opportunity to give the prize to an Indian (and a female).  Bharat is forever trapped and enslaved by a stodgy mind set.  A permanently old fashioned, stilted outlook (note: `Dadi', `Dada', `Mammachi', `Pappachi').  This novel reveals that its younger generation remain still imprisoned by lack of clear thinking, sentimental day dreaming and worship of the extended family unit as a god.  A god of small talents surely smiled on this novel.
I found this to be one of the worst books I have read in a long time, and I am an avid book reader.  I truly cannot comprehend how this nonsense could have won the Booker Prize.  The writing style is awful, at best and the main characters horrible, little children.  Someody once told me that the Booker Prize was all political and not necessarily based on the ability of the writer.  After reading this I believe it!  Really don't waste your time buying this.  I hope with the money she earned from this, politically active Ms Roy will take writing classes!
Please, intelligent readers, do not naively accept the gushing recommendations to read this book. I found it to be an odd amalgam of literary techniques seemingly borrowed from other writers. For example, the shifting chronology and stream-of-conscious evoked William Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury, in that the reader learns the entire plot in the first chapter. However, unlike Faulkner, Roy leaves no mystery for the reader to solve; it is entirely predictable. Roy's hint of magical realism is interesting, but, as other reviewers have mentioned, seems to borrow from Gabriel Garcia Marquez. At first, the children's perspective of a terrible crime based on prejudice in a cruel, adult world seemed original... until I realized that Harper Lee used this same perspective in To Kill a Mockingbird. The only reason I would suggest reading TGOST is if you enjoy challenging other people's gushing affirmations of a book's popularity. Which-come to think of it-I do enjoy.
I got this as a gift from my son, since I had just visited Tuscany last year and loved the food. I am an experienced gourmet cook. This book needed a test kitchen in the worst way. I tried two recipes: one for polenta (as basic as pasta) and a Garbanzo bean bread. The proportions for both were totally wrong. The polenta balled up in the pan, and the "flat bread" was like a soft egg dish. I checked in one of my favorite chef cookbooks (Sheila Lukins of Silver Palate fame) and the proportions were very different for the polenta. the other recipe couldn't find anywhere. I'm donating this one to the library for the Friends of the Library sale.
This the worst book i have ever read. made me sick to my guts. i can't believe anyone could reward this effort. total waste of time and money.
After patiently reading the stories of misery and outrage that happen to every character all along in the novel, I reached the end with discontentment and disgust.  It is unbelievable to see how such nonsense actually won a major prize. Like many recent Indian writers who put out these rambling pieces in English (Vikram Seth is another one that comes to mind), Roy uses word play incessantly.  To this she adds the backdrop of a different and 'exotic' culture (to non-Indians at least) and an oversupply of suffering and wretchedness.  The resulting mix is perfect bait for the international reviewers and some initial readers of the world who sometime in their life have heard of India, its poverty and its exotic culture and customs. The reviewers get what they want and the authors get the initial acclaim and the prize money that they want.  If most of the current English language writers from India were not so hugely boring, you would almost have to give them credit for their commercial sense (unethical though it may be).  Its pandering plain and simple.
did NOT order this item
Fortunately, unlike her non-fictional rantings, fiction is one medium in which her ravings do not need to possess any internal coherence; after all, if I could convince readers merely through my power of prose, to read 350 pages about why I choose to wear red shoes to work everyday, I must have done a great job writing the damn thing. I presume this must be the case for this book having pleased so many readers into the enthusiastic recommendation as one finds here. In my case, however, the experience of reading this book was frightfully irritating. Compared to some current and earlier Indian writers (for e.g., Mistry or Narayan), Ms Roy has little - if any - story telling skills, she does a very shoddy job stylistically (in particular, I find little merit in trying to compare her effort to the work of Rushdie or - again - Narayan), and this is beside the fact that there is little of quality originality here (you will find her stylististic antecedants, not equals, in Joyce, Hemingway, and other major modern English writers). While most Indian writers in the English, seem to exhaust what they have to say (their life so far), in a single book which sometimes turns out to be fairly readable (for e.g., Chatterjee or Vakil), I am afraid Ms. Roy has not been able to go even that distance.
When a book wins the booker prize and sells for 11.20 on amazon.com, something is wrong. I had to read this book for my english class over the summer. It is undoubtedly the worst book I have read in my entire life. First of all, the ending is in the beginning of the book, which spoils the book immediately. There is a simile in every paragraph and Roy absolutely must use personification with everything and anything possible. In addition there is an incredible amount of unecessary detail, with very little relevant plot. Numerous times, I have read pages of detail about something very forgettable and insignificant (I don't remember what) only to think, where is this going, but never finding the answer. If the book was a quarter of the length, it would have been much better. As if that's not bad enough, the characters are horribly portrayed, and barely at that. And why is it necessary to confuse the reader by continually jumping around? After about 75 pages of the book jumping from character to character, time to time and place to place, I gave up trying to enjoy it, or understand why Roy was writing what she was. I simply concentrated on getting through it, which was similar to chinese water torture. Unless you enjoy constantly trying to figure out what is going on and love endless, irrelevant detail, avoid this book at all costs. P.S. Did all reviewers who gave this 4+ stars, including the critics get bribed to give this book a good review? That's the only reason I can think of them doing so... P.P.S If an English teacher (mine) read this book in grad school, then how can highschool students be expected to read this book?
This book is terrible.  I had to read it for an Indian literature class and it really made me want to vomit.  If I had managed to vomit on a piece of paper it would have been more impressive than the writing in this novel.  For starters this book is so derivative of Rushdie's work it is amazing.  Read Midnights Children and then read this and you will see the similarities.  Note:  I am not saying that Rushdie's work is the same quality as Roy's, just that she stole alot from him. I've seen her claim to not be familiar with his work.  Come on, you're Indian writing an Indian novel and you haven't heard of one of the best modern writers of your country?  Then she throws in some unneeded sexual passages andputswordstogether because she is so artistic.  She attacks the caste system, wow really original there. []If you read any of Ms. Roy's political commentary (read: rants) you will realize[]why the Booker prize people liked her so much.  Or maybe they wanted to give the prize to an Indian author with a liberal bias, I don't know. All I know is that anyone who proclaims this book a great work of literature probably thinks Maya Angelou is a good poet too. Don't hold your breath waiting for another book to come out, she won a prize with this [] and she doesn't want to be found out for what she is.
This book is extremely complicated with an underdeveloped plot.  The readers spends the first half of the book wondering who Sophie Mol is and eagerly awaiting the beginning of the plot.  The second half is filled with the disappointment of realizing that the plot was not worth trudging through the heavy words and mixed up concepts.  The sexual exploitation appears to serve no purpose in the novel except to offer a bit of shock value.  It appears to be strategically placed in the middle in order to keep the reader from giving up.  My advice is to look for another book.
Readers were enthralled by this Kindergarten book, just because it won the Booker Prize, run by SHOPKEEPERS. The language used is absolutely childish and maybe readers understand abused usage of English lingo. I would say, and I know that Booker Prize is very controversial. There is one South African Writer who keeps getting this politicized so called prize. Anyway she failed as a screenwriter and learned the ropes of getting a Booker and in the process made her a millionare. I'm sorry even Kindergarten kids laugh at the sentence structure, syntax, world play---which one reviewer calls "Jazzy".It sure is Jazzy as no good writer can write so badly.
After reading all the glowing reviews, I was disappointed with the rambling, disjointed, impossible to follow story.  The poor grammer added to my disappointment.  There are so many disjointed phrases, with periods at the end of a jumble of words, it was nearly impossible to understand what the author intended to say.  Ms Roy is in great need of an accomplished editor.  I read 75 to 100 books per year and this is the worst book I've read in 2001.
I consider this book the written version of modern art's "big yellow dot".  In any modern art museum you'll find a large black canvas with nothing but a big yellow dot on it.  No matter what obtuse meaning pseudo-intellectuals ascribe to that painting, it remains that it's no more than a big yellow dot. "God of Small Things" is the written equivalent.  It will no doubt continue to be popular in some circles as some readers ascribe deep meaning to its confusing plot lines and verbiage.  But deep in my heart I believe the vast majority of people are saying (if only under their breath), "Why in the world did I read this book?"
Couldn't finish it.  Characters were simplistic and plot moved slowly
I highly recommend that this book be avoided.  I read it on the recommendations that I saw here and heard in person.  It is not very interesting.  The main characters are so steeped in abuse that they are almost unbelievable.  The title mislead me to believe that if I made it to the end, there would be something positive after all the tragedy that occurs, but there was only more tragedy and dispair.
Well here is my honest opinion about this much touted tale of twins. This is basically a cute sort of kiddish story which sounds profound and arty because it is confusing. It took me quite an effort to complete it. All because half baked characters keep popping in and out of the book. Now what happens to them nobody really knows, and beyond a point u don't even care. Maybe the whole idea was to be arty by being confusing.....
I tried.  God, I tried.  After 50 pages, I sampled near the end of the book.  The same.  So I did it.  I gave up on her.  The author can write stunningly - but she writes as if answering one question:  Just how clever and expressive can I be?  She writes as if the storyline is only a tease for her 'where the hell is this going' descriptions.  It made me want to go home and kick the dog.  Update Autumn 2007: I picked it up this summer again and I finished the damn thing. I am stubborn sometimes.  My assessment stands. A lot of work for little reward. This is a great book if you are never going to die - but for average readers who must account for their time, there are too many other excellent books whose authors write with the reader in mind, keeping them within a traceable arc of our common journey.
It reads like a clumsy effort by a talented high-schooler.  Vastly overrated and tremendously disappointing.
I must say, I can't understand the hype about this book.  Boy, Was I disappointed.  Big time.  The book just never did hook me into wanting to finish it.  I couldn't care less about the characters.
On my computer kindle app, the line breaks between settings were visible, but on my phone, they were merely paragraph breaks, no space between. As you might imagine, this was incomprehensibly aggravating, trying to jump unexpectedly between characters as this novel does with such peppered regularity. Perhaps an extra section break between perspectives would solve the problem.
Having purchased the book in 97, I could only end it this month. Says something about the interest factor in the writing. Ms Roy has written a book which is by all means autobiographical. In parts it gets disjointed and shaky; at other parts the book goes haywire. Suddenly it shoots into a unknown terrain which has no link with the main story. The result CONFUSION CONFOUNDED! Damn it, this must be definitely art. It certainly is no real world story. But modern art's appeal lies in the hype surrounding the artist. SO the publishers have unleashed a campaign to tell us that if we cannot appreciate this, we must be uncouth!!!  The story is set in Kerala and is supposed to be the world as seen thru the eyes of a child. This much is okay. But what really got onto my nerves was showy phrases and corny digressions. The first page definitely is similar to Alan Paton's " Cry the beloved country." Yet there is no passage which is really memorable or can make u emotional. The author has had a sad and disjointed life for sure. But this alone does not make for good literature. Anyway having gone to sleep at least a hundred times while trying to read this, I surely rate it as the best sleeping pill!
Look friends, I exactly am not dumb! Infact I got myself a masters from  Kansas to prove that. But this book frankly left me puzzled and scared.  Scared bcos if I admit to the world that I could not find it interesting  people will call me dumb. And I ain't a dumbo... Anyway here I am tryin to  be frank at the cost of my reputation. Yeah man this book takes a lot of  PATIENCE! And it ain't the best story book in town. So if you want to test  yourself against confusing language and showy phrases, go ahead. otherwise  follow my advice and avoid this. God knows how these prizes are  distirbuted. I guess it may be a conspiracy against us simple dodos who  look for satisfaction and story in books....
The KINDLE EDITION FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MY AMAZON EXPERIENCE NOT A FAITHFUL RENDITION OF THE BOOK.  Clancy's style in this book is to make sudden changes to the story line within a chapter.  New characters, plots and locations start with a change of the paragraph.  Clancy gives fair warning by adding a few extra blank lines to indicate the change.  It happened that I purchased at a flee market the 800 page hard cover.  I judged it a good read but more than I could carry on the plane.  The obvious answer was my Kindle, a device I always have with me.  Kindle did not include the blank lines.  The change of location, characters, and story line turns out to be extremely abrupt without the lines.  I judged that to be unreadable.  I had never experienced this failure in Kindle editions before.  I'll carry the original as inconvenient as it is.
Being a big fan of Indian and Asian writings, I approached this book with a lot of enthusiasm and energy. However soon I found my interest waning.  For Arundhati begins well but starts floundering by page 5. I started  getting the feeling that the author suddenly discovered that she was onto a  big book and wanted to make it arty as possible. So the story suddenly goes  to the backseat. And in come gross and showy phrases. As someone said  earlier this became style over substance. A simple story about twins in  Kerala suddenly became complicated, complex and confusing. It is in parts  an autobiography. In others just jumble of images and words. Sure there are  signs of talent here and there. But, nothing warrants the hype. In fact  some of the scenes inserted seem specifiaclly designed to show the critics  that this is art and not plain story telling. For this false pretense I am  tempted to give this one star...
Arundhati Roy's book is an amatearish effort and that is its greatest strength and weakness. For me, though the entire fare remained disappointing. The reason-- weak story line and characters. In fact every  few pages a new character pops up and disappears. How it connects to the  tale is left to the readers imagination. The first page begins with a  similar description as in Alan Paton's "Cry the beloved country."  After a rather evocative passage the story just flags off. And that remains  the problem with all the chapters. Rahel and Estha the two main characters  remain distant. Their father is shown to be a villain. It seems all these  characters are drawn from the writers own life. But then she does not  convey their lives well enough to the reader. So in the end you are left  with a vague jumble of words. Better editing could have made the story more  lucid. But I guess todays book sellers are concerned with marketing and not  good stories!  For an outsider there is some exotica in the form of  untouchables of India. For Indians this is all badly presented stuff !  but  then I could be an old fashioned reader who loves Vikram Seth, Doris  Lessing and Coetze. Give them to me any day....
The God of small things is really no masterpiece as publishers make it out to be. The story is meant to be the world view of a child. Unfortunately because of poor narration capability of the author the whole story leaves  you confused and cold. There is some potential in the tale no doubt, but  the treatment is really not too good. Then what happens?  To the reader it  will just seem like mysterious characters coming in and going out with no  flow evr happening. As someone pointed out this seems more like diary  writing. At times there are some exotic descriptions. But good god !  This  is not enough to make you read the whole thing... My advice is read the  reviews, not the book! That way you will be saved of disappointment!
Too Repetitive
I found this book to be of no redeeming literary value what-so-ever.  No plot existed, the characters were lifeless. Also the literary style does not lend itself to a full length novel, only at best a short story.  This  book stirred no feelings of interest anywhere in me.
I am normally a big Clancy fan, but I just could not get into this book no matter how hard I tried. This was the first book in I don't know how long that I just abandoned.
With all the awards this got, I forced my way to keep reading, hoping it would get better.  I got through half of it, bored with the stories and the writing style. I didn't care about any of the characters and could find nothing remotely compelling about the storyline. Seems that a lot of reader comments were similar to this. I wish I would have read them before buying the book.
I couldn't get past the first few chapters. The author simply smothers the reader with details and persists in being clever with language, simply for the sake of being clever. This story could have been told in 5 chapters.  A  sham. Bogus.  A waste of time.
I have read a lot of Tom Clancy and this I couldn't even finish. He jumped around so much and a lot of information during one of his jumps didn't even seem to relate to what might turn out to be the story. Very disappointing. Don't waste your time.
This was described as "very good" but looked like it was old, discolored throughout, with significant cracking all over the spine, cover, and pages. The cover was ripped and folded and some of the pages were falling out.
The product is sub-par. There was no quality control, no review of the text. There were numerous errors, especially spelling errors. Just because you can run a spell check and get it to pass does not mean that the words are correct. Poor, poor quality. If you won't spend the money and time to produce a good product, I won't be spending my money on Amazon books in the future.
I read this book for a college english class, and I went into it with really high expectations because it was being taught along with some this centuries best novels. This is not one of the century's best novels. The  whole thing grows incredibly repeditive and sappy. During the first 200  pages the novel sccomplishes nothing, and in the last hundred it destroys  the disaccomplishments of the first two hundred pages. Also at times the  book is preachy. Miss Roy doesn't really know subtly. She interprets every  action and beats you over the head with repitition and over explination. At  the end I found the book wasn't really worth the read.
So disappointed in Roy's first book.  What exactly was the point? -- did she actually think describing in detail the horrendous conditions in India would hold our interest throughout the book.  Set the scene but get on  with it.
Could someone please explain to me why so many contemporary novels read by book groups have to be filled with gloom and doom.  In this novel, it got to be almost laughable.  Not only do we have the standard issues of  alcoholism, child abuse, and indifferent mothers which seem to be in every  novel these days, The God of Small Things throws in incest, murder,  anti-Christian propaganda, and characters who have no single redeeming  quality in their collective little, abused souls.  After reading this  novel, I wanted to take a shower to remove all the depression and filth it  left behind.
Once again, Clancy has proven he cares more about trash than truth. This book is full of  meaningless profanity and disrespect for Christianity (with a strange love for Islam.) The book also speaks quite disrespectfully of America in general, especially it's government. To top it all off, I read a review somewhere that this book had mature sexual themes in it too. So what's one to do? I quit this book... and I advise anyone who cares about their purity and soul do the same.
Story is very boring and no resemblance to Agatha Chrisite 's way of writing. Repetitions of cliche and by the middle one can easily guess the outcome. No role for Miss Marple. I think its better to give a miss to this one. Though got at very low price, not worth the time it takes to read.
I've been a big fan of Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan series for many years.  I've read all of the books several times.  When this came out on CD I searched the packaging carefully for an indication of abridgement and couldn't find one, so I bought it.  It is cut so severely that it might as well be a different book by an inferior author.  The small amount of the story that remained after the butchery was so disjointed that had I not known the story well I would have been lost.
I didn't finish the book because it was boring
OMIGOD this book is boring!! Now, don't get me wrong. I love read-it-on-the-beach-and-who-cares-if-you-spill-lotion-on-it fiction and, up to now, I've loved Tom Clancy. But SOAF is out of control. Even for this book's immense girth, every character remains resolutely wooden, including Jack Ryan -- who, for some (never explained) reason, has become fat, alcoholic, dyspeptic, disillusioned, and impotent. (Don't worry: his brilliant yet spunky wife changes all that -- literally overnight.) And yet the book goes on and on and on. Early in the novel, the bad guys building a nuclear bomb reveal that the project may take 10 months. Not to fret, though -- you won't miss a minute of those ten months, because Clancy takes you through each and every tedious day. Suckled, as he now is, on screenplays, he has also forgotten that scene, place, and time changes in novels don't come with captions or establishing shots: He jerks you from one place to the next without bothering to write so much as a single transition sentence. If he were in my writing classes, I'd fail him. Though others have called the premise of this book "realistic," I could never bring myself to fall for it. For one thing, I never understood why the "terrorists" were doing what they were doing. (Oh. Because they're terrorists. Now I see....) And Clancy's pious little Afterword, in which he admonishes us to take seriously the perils we face in the aftermath of nuclear proliferation -- it was to laugh, my friends. Really. It's not that I don't think some nut job somewhere might get a hold of plutonium and figure out how to make a bomb. It's that I don't think a bloated, overwritten novel is the way to address the issue. Tom Clancy's bio brags that he's the advisor to presidents. Good. Go explain the problem to Dubya. Cuz right now the sum of all my fears is that Tom Clancy will go on writing like this.
Too bad the author got so much praise for such over-the-top writing.  Reminds me of creative writing classes, too descriptive, contrived, aiming to make an impression rather than tell a story.
First this is NOT a "SAS" survival handbook but a book written by John "Lofty" Wiseman who got out of the SAS in 1985.... Yeap real up to date.... here it says he was in for 26 years and he is on youtube saying 27 years and he states he got out in 1985.  The book uses the name SAS as if this is what the British military uses and it is NOT.  I am sure the title helps sell this book, but the content is not up to date and is lacking in many areas.  The book is some what helpful but if you think your getting a true military manual from the SAS your not.  There are many good military survival manuals here on Amazon.
700 pages on how to build a nuclear bomb.  Thanks but no thanks.  Clancy's worst book by far.
I bought this book on the strength of the review I read in our newspaper - I'll never make THAT mistake again!  I absolutely don't get the hype over this novel.  I couldn't follow the plot.  I couldn't find a SINGLE reason to care about what happened to any of these characters.  And I found Roy's "unusual" style distracting and affected.
I heard that this novel was going to be made into a movie. I hope the Hollywood writers do a better job than Clancy did. Clancy is known for his technical errors, at least among those in the aerospace industry, but this book gets the error prize. Some readers dismiss his errors quickly, but in his effort to create a scenario in which NORAD will misinterpret data and think a nuclear attack had come from Russia, Clancy reveals that he hasn't got a clue how things actually work. One example: he has a small atomic bomb create an electromagnetic pulse which is received by commercial and military satellites. In order to protect themselves, the satellites automatically shut down their downlink transmitters, thus appearing as if Russia had attacked the satellites themselves in a bid to wreck our communications capability prior to an all out nuclear strike on the U.S. Commercial satellites will not do this because this kind of capability is not needed and costs money. A large electromagnetic pulse (at Clancy's described power level)will only saturate the channel with no damage. The channel will then come out of saturation less than a second later and the satellite will operate normally thereafter. This premise is crucial to Clancy having the president almost launch a nuclear attack on Russia. The rest of the novel is from the worst soap operas laced with excruciating trivia. (Tom, you don't have to put in everything you have found out on a particular subject!) ....
After reading this book, I know why it clinched the Booker Prize. Like last year's winner, Graham Swift's Last Orders, it is so literary. Nearly every paragraph contains a metaphor or a simile. It is good to have some of these sporadically placed throughout the book, but certainly not with the frequency seen in the book!. This book generated so much hype in the media but is a thorough disappointment for readers like myself. A tedious task to read.
Good title but that is about it for this book, compared to the U.S. Military.
I'm not sure from whom Clancy is getting his technical information, but he ought to be fired. It is obvious that Clancy hasn't got a clue how things operate with regard to NORAD, missile warnings, or the military's reaction to such. His weapon's effects tome and its effects on commercial satellites  is riduculous. Give NORAD and the U.S military credit for not being total  idiots. The correct information is out there. Mr. Clancy, hire a real  researcher! The end of the book is ludicrous. Let's hope the up coming  movie is better than what Clancy has wrought.
This is a poor translation to a kindle version. I returned for refund after reading 4 pages.
I was expecting some sort of redemption for Ben, but alas, it was not to be.  Why didn't Lessing perhaps focus on Ben getting assessed by child specialists so that perhaps he could have been helped and protected?  It really made me angry that there was obviously no remorse on the part of Ben's father for putting him in that institution.  You would think in the sequel that perhaps Ben's family would have tried to understand Ben a little better, that perhaps Ben's father would develop some compassion for his own son!  The ending was a cop-out.
I cant listen to this. It is for M3p players only. I wish this information was clearer.
Didnt realize that this is a short story
This kindle book is a short story with the same title but it is not the full length novel.  It does not feature Hercule Poirot.
This is barely even a short story. No sooner has Christie introduced the characters, someone dies and the murderer is quickly revealed. The reader has no opportunity to consider any clues for his or herself, there is no tension or intrigue, it's barely a mystery. The big mystery was why it needed to be 32 pages, when the story was barely 18 pages long? (Spoiler Alert - there's 10 pages of promotion for other material!) Even at the low price of 99 cents, it's way overpriced.
this is not the full Agatha Christi book. It is a quick short story , don't buy this version. Something is totslly missing , It takes 30 minutes to read the whole book.
Buyer beware! I bought this book on Kindle and it's NOT the same as the actual book.  Two totally different novels!
Although this field guide covers both Chile and Argentina it was difficult to use in the field.  Poor illustrations which fail to depict form, awkward layout with range maps and in flight illustrations in the appendix made it aggravating to use.  I would recommend carrying two guides Princeton Birds of Chile and another for Argentina.
this book was a requirement for my language arts class so I bought it but this book can be incredibly boring. Unless you love agathas books or just mystery then I'm assuming it's a good read
Complaining about the "now-you-see- it, now you-don't " guilt of the cast of characters  sailing the Nile proves it  was mere curiosity that compelled me to read it to the end.
Though I think that David Suchet does well in his portrayal of Hercule Poirot in the TV show, he does an abominable job as the narrator of Death on the Nile. The voices with which he chose to endow some of the characters were ridiculous and ill-fitting. In particular, Colonel Race comes off sounding like a doofus with a speech impediment, which does not describe him at all. You'd think that Suchet or at least one other person had read The Man in the Brown Suit or Cards on the Table and gotten some idea of Race's character--and therefore what he might sound like when he spoke. Yeesh.
Bernard Cornwell is probably the best historical novelist alive today and his Sharpe series is superb.  The reason for one star is the fact Patrick Tull is probably the worst reader I have ever had the misfortune to have to listen to.  His style appears to be to mumble through sentences and then literally shout every name or 10-15th word.  I suspect many folk listen to audiobooks while in the car and it's pure hell to try to understand what this guy is reading.  If you turn the volume up enough to hear the mumbles then your eardrums are assaulted by the shouts.  If you leave it low enough to hear the shouts then you miss everything else.  Avoid this reader if at all possible but do enjoy all of Cornwell's works.
I find it very sad that one of the most disgraceful events i english history is being presented as something heroic. Being danish I know very well what happened in 1807 aswell as before that fateful year. In 1801 the english attacked us for the first time eventhough we had done nothing against them. One of the leaders of the mission to Copenhagen was the famous Lord Nelson. His mission was to force the danish government to hand over the strong Danish-Norwegian navy. That resulted in the famous "Battle of Copenhagen", one of Nelsons three major naval confrontations(the others were:Aboukir1798,Trafalgar1805).In spite of the fact that he claimed victory when he came home to his country, the mission had been a faliure. He did NOT manage to confiscate our navy, instead he and the rest of his fleet suffered very heavy losses without being able to force their will upon us. Infact more british seamen got killed in that battle than at Aboukir and Trafalgar put together. The fighting only stopped when Nelson hinted that he might slaughter the danish prisoners of war if we didn't agree to a ceasefire. So Nelson was both a sore looser aswell as a man who used dirty tricks to "win". In 1807 The english had no Nelson anymore but the cynism was the same. Remembering well that the last time they challenged the danish navy in honest fighting they got a bloody nose, they decided to iniciate the FIRST TERROR BOMBARDMENT IN HISTORY, deliberatery targeting the civilian population of the city, like it was seen many times during WW2 from 1940-45. Stunned by the brutality of the british, the city capitulated so that the english could finally steal the most advanced navy in the world at the time. The war continued and rarely have we danish people hated anyone so much as we hated the british during those years... and wo can blame us?
Didn't get on time
...then read something great like War and Peace.  This is worse than a steaming pile of you know what - it is a long steaming pile of you know what.  The smell stays with you long after you've finished it.  Like others have said, I loved the first 3 books.  Then, AFFC was terrible.  I didn't know if anything else could be quite as bad, but now this might be even worse.  I'm done with the series.  There are a million great books out there waiting to be read.
1 word disappointing. If 1 has to wait for more than 2 yrs before the next book is released, the book should be expected to move the story forward more than this book did. I am too disappointed to say too much. I will not be buying the next book hard cover. I can certainly wait for it to come out on paperback. At least, by buying it cheaper, it might make me more lenient.
I got it in time but the book itself is damaged. It looks like it got wet in the past and dried out until it arrived to me. I am not satisfied.
Martin basically took boxes of notes and shipped them to the publisher. You have to read this book twice just to realize the Author forgot what he was writing about. Almost painful read. After the third book, the series goes straight downhill.
I thought I was borrowing this book according to the Amazon Prime option.  I did n want to buy a $10.59 digital book I could get as a used paperback for less than $3.  All of a sudden, I get an invoice.  I wish to return this immediately, and find out how Amazon Prime works for lending Library books, something that is not explained well.  Amazon Prime is sometimes a mystery to me, without explanations or directions as to how to used it.  In the meantime, I seem to have bought a book instead of borrowing it. I would appreciate some help, but as usual, on Amazon, I can't find a place to request it.
this is how i received the book
Could the publisher please explain why the same e-book costs $9.99 USD for US users and $16.00 USD for Australian users?
The first two books were great. I didn't care as much for the third but this one? I want a refund for my time.  It seems as though the author made his money on the series and gave up on the story.  This book is full of nonsense ramblings and NO closure. I read these before watching. I am sorely disappointed.
To my mind, you have history, fiction, and historical fiction.  In the latter category, fictional characters are placed in a historical setting, and the author ought not change any actual historical events that he refers to in his work and any actual historical characters in the novel also ought to be true to the historical facts that are known about them.  You can have your fictional characters do anything that you want them to do, but when you put in "real" people like Tooch Bedsole or Bill Waite, then you ought to confine yourself to what you know to be true about them.  Otherwise, you are just lying about them, and that's not fair to either Tooch or Bill.  It seems to me that the author took a real story (with which I am familiar, having an ancestor who died in the Mitcham War) and made a grade B western potboiler out of it.  And the grossest injustice lies in making Sheriff Waite the hero of the novel.  In fact, the sheriff was the true villain of the story, not Tooch Bedsole.  In any society, there are people who have to be kept under control for the good of the society - in this case, Tooch Bedsole and the Hell at the Breech gang.  The sheriff was the person whose duty it was to do that, and his neglect of that duty led to the death or injury of a number of people.  He let the Hell at the Breech gang get totally out of control to the point that the whole New Prospect community was terrorized.  And then, he let a bunch of vigilantes get out of control and kill or injure a number of innocent folks along with the guilty.  That surely does not fit my idea of a hero.  Franklin may know a few facts and he may have distorted these facts in an entertaining way, but he apparently has no understanding at all about what went on in Mitcham beat of Clarke County, Alabama, between the end of the Civil War and 1893.
OK, I was not impressed.  I thought Hell at the Breech was unimaginative and lacking detail.  I finished the easy read quickly, but in the end was dissapointed.  At one point in the novel, I thought, "Is this taken from the movie Tombstone?".  Geesh lets have some originality.  It didn't seem that Tom Franklin did any kind of research on the era of events.  Very dissapointing...
The original item was listed as a five book set with even a picture of the set.  I don't know if this was a game of bait and switch or a real accident.  They even took forever to ship and when I stated the error they ignored my first email and replied with a canned response.  I had to send screenshots to prove the deception.  Books are fantastic!
Have loved the book for years, but the audio recording is just awful.  I would guess this was an old tape recording, and it has not aged well.  For this price, I seriously expected better, we're not at all happy with this purchase.
There was a torn page in the middle of the book.
It was the wrong book.
spoiler: everybody dies
Should have just stopped with the last book. The whole last book was a total WAIST of TIME, if you like being strung along and then spat in the face for following, this books for you.
Lots of negative comments about the lack of resolution, and I agree.  SOFAI/GOT is not a conventional series where there is a beginning a middle and an end. It is a soap opera where one joins a story in eternal progress.  Sauron will never be defeated. The Shire will never be scoured. This road will go on forever. You either enjoy the ride, or you get off.  I'm off.
By far the worst MacLean book that I have ever read.  I could only get as far as 20% - approximately.  Because it was not worth the time to do the math.  His personal political prejudices permeate the book - at least that part of it that I could get through.  Way too much preaching!!!
I have read a few of Macleans's books and always found them very entertaining but this one was just plain awful. Unreadable to be honest, I tried it in 2011 and couldn't read more than 60 pages and 5 years later there is no change, I lasted 200 pages this time and that was skimming the rubbish.  The author has written a book that has it's political discussions and I am sure it was relevant in the 1950's but the way it is written is so poor. The dialogue is so preachy and unrealistic, I found myself wondering how a great author could write such a book.
This book has two titles, "The secret ways" and "The last frontier which is very misleading. It should have aka.
Martin has done a tremendous job of setting up a complex multi-faceted cultures with religions, customs, foods, histories, in varied geographies and interconnections of kings, lords, commoners, thieves, merchants, slavers, knights, whores, clowns, poets, singers and dwarfs and crows, wolves,horses elephants and dragons.  A great undertaking and very complex and the books started out well and progressively got worse as he has too many people and too many events and many disjointed events and many hanging events that seem interesting, intriguing and even exciting, but they go nowhere and join many other events and characters that go nowhere. It appears that he is preparing to write 30 more books to cover all the stories and loose ends. Dances With Dragons was very disappointing read. Perhaps the worst of the series. I have not watched the TV version and I don't know how close it is to the books. Another thing I just realized is that, not much good thing happens and it is semi-pessimistic and filled with plots and sub plots and much failure. Not much joy, success or happiness. All doom and gloom. Almost everybody is killed , imprisoned and destroyed. I know he is reserving Sansa for something good and Jon Snow is not done and Ceirsi is not done either. He laid a great foundation but it seems like it got away from him. Don't waste time reading this book. Wait for the next one and hope that he becomes more focused and finish some of these stories. He is very talented and had grand ideas. I am very much disappointed. The book was a very hard read, boring at times and the threads (if any), never went anywhere. Supposedly The Winds of Winter will remedy these major shortcomings.
Excessively verbose descriptions of irrelevant characters and unnecessary details, and a "plot" that just kind of meanders throughout the book. When I found myself yelling at the book in frustration - out loud, yes - then I knew I had reached my limit. This was a very painful read, and I won't be picking up any more in this Game of Thrones series. Life is too short to read bad books.
The Song of Ice and Fire has run out of fuel.  It is hard to imagine that anyone seriously, realistically expects George R. R. Martin to finish this series in book form.  It has been more that five years since this book was finished, and there is no sign that Winds of Winter will ever find its way to being published.  It's all about TV, and social media, and money.  Like many others, I read the book when it first came out with great excitement about the progress of the story.  Forget about that.  It's lost in the never-ending game of television series that always hold back at the end of a season, promise more, and then keep dangling its followers.  This is an important book of course.  It is truly the end of the major fantasy novel as we know it (knew it).  The most successful fantasy series of our time has crash-landed.  The story has gone off into a wandering series of tangents that ensure a long run for a commercially successful television series.  This book is full of promises that will never be kept.  The author has obviously given up completely.  Why write anything so old-fashioned as a novel intended for print?  Endings and conclusions are so out of fashion now.  You can find better ways to spend your time and money.
I loved the first 3 books - so much that I was comparing him to Tolkien and CS Lewis.  I slogged through the 4th book resolutely.  As for the last book... I have never ever felt so betrayed and let down by an author.  *******I guess this is somewhat of a spoiler*********  it's like he totally gave up at the end with bland spray-on one dimensional ending and left dozens of brilliant and spellbinding storylines and characters hanging with NOTHING.  I am no literary expert but I feel like he broke every tacit agreement between story teller and reader.  Other reviewers have done a great job with reviewing this book and the series.  Martin is an incredible writer and I hate to give him one star....but I was so stunned by the nonresolution of such important storylines.  This is one case where the film version saved this series.
The last two books were written as if the author just wanted to be done with the project & move on to television.  So much of what was carefully created in the series, simply ended with a death or two --it just stops. Characters & plots you followed closely throughout the series in five LONG BOOKS simply die in an ending paragraph: the last two books were a waste of time & effort or at least misplaced effort. The effort should have been focused on story closure rather than piling on more details without moving the story along more; page after relentless page of more dialogue and description that doesn't move the story series to closure. Of course, five books prints more money & almost guarantees a television series.  I found it incredible when I heard people telling me the television version was better.  Now I'm believer without even viewing the television series. If it reached at least some story closure that made sense; how could it be worse?
stinks
Sorry for audible the narrator really missed the mark. Tyrion does not sound like a leprechaun
The book is amazing, but hardcover "library binding" is a truly deceptive term. The book is absolutely TINY, and I was very disappointed in the size of it. I immediately setup processing for a return. Great book, horribly format. You're better off getting the ebook or spending the extra money at a Barnes and Nobles and receiving a normal sized hardcore with book sleeve.
I'm a big GMF fan, but found this to be nearly unreadable  The humor was too forced and finishing it was a chore  I enjoy a good pirate story, but this one wasn't for me
I was a big fan of the first three books.  The fourth book was okay, but I am sorry I spent the money on A DANCE WITH DRAGONS and definitely won't buy #6.
I can't possibly write a review as clever as some I have seen here, so I will make that my theme.  You will get more pleasure reading the best of the critical reviews than you will get from reading A Dance With Dragons.  As many others have stated, I also loved the first three books, thought the fourth was boring, but maybe excusable as setting the stage for what was coming, but there is no excuse for the bloated excess of book 5.  The HBO series has its own problems, but it's better than volumes 4 and 5.  I now think of the series as the real Game of Thrones and frankly couldn't care less if Martin never finishes the series.
Too long yet too little action. Boring...
Nothing happens in this book
Books 1,2 3 were really good. Books 4 and 5 like watching paint dry. Not sure I will read Books 6 and 7. Will probably just watch TV series.
My book came torn up in the back ... :/ I don't want to return it since I live overseas it would be more expensive than to just order another one.
I only gave it one rating as the book was not as advertised. What I received was chapters from previous books. Too bad Amazon can not get this right, this is the second time I ordered A Dance with Dragons Part 1 Dreams and Dust.
Cover of the book has a huge rip in it.  Now I have to go through the pain and hassle of returning it.
Martin is lost. He's out of ideas to move the story ahead, so he fills pages with the usual filler: all the layers of clothing, details of every sigil in sight, the contents of dinner, breakfast and lunch, the confused thoughts of almost every character... Book 5 was a waste of my effort and money.
I am an ardent student of history and particularly enjoy English and Scottish history from the period 1300-1750.  The author of this work is one of my favorites, having read most of his Flashman novels of historical fiction.  That being the case, you would think that this work would be right in my wheelhouse.  You would be wrong.  Expecting interesting stories and histories of events along the English/Scottish border, I was instead confronted with a dry, turgid scholarly treatise.  Endless citing of English and Scottish village names, multiple variations of spellings and name forms, many times for the same person, illegible maps and a complete lack of any semblance of organization leaves me mystified how on earth this book has garnered so many positive ratings.  Does the author have so many relatives?  Most annoying is the author's frequently employed tendency of directly quoting many of the actors in the history.  You would think this would bring an authenticity and clarity to the dialogue, but quite the opposite.  For you see, the denizens of the border didn't exactly speak the King's English as you and I know it.  For a good example, read some Robert Burns and explain to me what it says.  Page after page of quotations whose meaning can only be vaguely discerned by puzzling over context and possible meanings of words spelled only slightly similar to those with which you are familiar.  Loads of enjoyment and enlightenment ensue.  This is, quite frankly, one of the worst books I have ever read.
For all its pages, there is very little plot or character progression. As a fan of the earlier books for close to 20 years, it's a disappointment.
After waiting FFE it was not drlivered because of address confusion. I will re-order because I would really like to know whats happening!! Lol
I put it down.  Couldn't wade through any more
I bought all five books at once because my friend said that they were great, I really liked the first 3 books and I think the author should have finished the story with 3 books. The other 2 books (and gods save my soul), 2 more to come are too much. Too many characters that are just fillers, main characters left lost, killing of the ones I cared about, destroying the only family line (Starks) that looked like a good bloodline. I hate to say to the people who love these books, but last 2 aren't worth a fart. They are extremely long, boring, useless and I felt nothing reading them. I do hope that HBO make them better with the series and somebody give the author some hints to finish the books and maybe try to regain the first 2 books quality. I will not buy the books 6 and 7. I will just watch the show if HBO make improvements to the author's books.
"Words are wind."  Mr. Martin certainly passes a lot of wind in this book.
It does not clearly state that this is a miniature version of the actual novel.
The first three books of this series were good, but books four and five were bad. I know many people are waiting for the next books but I am not going to be one of them.
This review is for the audiobook as narrated by Roy Dotrice, which is not able to be reviewed separately from the text-only book. As such, I'm not evaluating the book itself (or giving spoilers) but only Roy Dotrice's performance while reading it. Considering the fact that the audiobook is quite expensive, prospective buyers might be interested in knowing other's evaluation of the quality of the audio performance.  (This single star is for the audiobook version of A Dance with Dragons as read by Roy Dotrice: Amazon does not have any way to only review the audiobook instead of having the review lumped in with all other reviews of the book, but I'm sure that some considering buying the very expensive audiobook might like a specific review of that performance before buying it.)  Roy Dotrice has been a highly respected and adored actor and voice actor for most of his professional life, but he should not have been asked (or agreed) to do this reading of A Song of Ice and Fire at his age. His voice is weak and quavering throughout, and his acting is inconsistent and nonsensical, and his portrayal of Dany (especially in Book 5) is almost unlistenable. She sounds like an ancient, gumless hag instead of the young, noble queen she's supposed to be. Many of the other accent choices don't seem to be very well reasoned, either: You'll have servants speaking in British radio English, while highly educated noblemen (like Sam) suddenly acquire a cockney accent and forget to pronounce all of their consonants, and people in the same family sound like they're from entirely different regions in Scotland and Ireland. Even if you didn't mind that, the voices and accents throughout are highly inconsistent, meandering from one accent to another for the same character in a single conversation. It's incredibly frustrating and distracting, and while I was able to tolerate it for Books 1-3, I had to stop listening to Book 5 altogether.  He's significantly older in the later A Dance with Dragons and should not have been asked to do the reading. He simply doesn't sound physically or mentally up to the task.
It took more than a year to get to me
If I could give it zero stars I would, just to draw your attention to this magnificent novel.  I am grateful to the person who recommended it to me.  I've read it three times in six months, each time with greater commitment and admiration: I only wish I could read it in Russian and be qualified to comment on the translation.  And if you are a person who looks through reviews on Amazon to try to figure out whether a book you're considering might be worthwhile?  Order it.  Read it. Meet Alexei, Elena, Nikolka:  expand your literary life.
Book would not play on kindle. I WANT A REFUND.
Never read it. Could not get it to load to the Kindle.
Emma must have a skate board under that elegant gown as she GLIDES wherever she goes. It got to be like fingernails on a blackboard . Also you'dhave to have a PHD in English to understand the meaning of her vocabulary. Darn. I only have a Master . Too much "trying to impress". It took away from the story. Sorry!  I was not impressed.  Just irritated
I have never written a review before but after reading this book I just could not be silent. I was extremely disappointed with how Martin wrapped up this book series. I should have paid attention to the other reviews but I was sucked in by Martin's first three books that I thought were pretty good. Although I did find Book 4 wanting, I had hoped Book 5 would tie up the loose ends. In the end, there were way too many questions left unanswered and too many characters unfulfilled! It's like the author got tired, decided he needed to end the book, and did just that without meeting his obligation for the satisfaction and intelligence of his readers. I am an avid reader and I particularly love fantasy books that have more than one book. The longer the series, the better I like it. If you are a reader that pays particular attention to plot, character development, focus, and realistic closure, you might want to avoid this series. The end made it not worth all the excitement that I experienced in the beginning.
i didn't get much past page 7: " She knew that if he was not entirely venal he was undoubtedly exigent and specious, and dissimulation had become second nature to him."  This 1979 "classic, unforgettable novel of one woman's triumph against all odds" [men] lost me with its stiff, predictable dialog and unbelievable characters and was awarded a place in my Goodwill donation bag. Exigent? Specious?
Plot sounded interesting, but profanity abounds. No thank you.
Disappointing.  I won't pick up another Mithcard book.
When I first started this book I thought it was going to be good.  For some reason I decided to read the author's introduction.  It was so self-grandizing, I couldn't make myself read any further.  Maybe it's a good book but I'll never know, and it's hard to imagine that the author is as wonderful as she believes she is.
grrrrr...the book looked great when i got it "like new", but as i got started reading i realised that entire pages were ripped from the book. I think i would prefer a battered old tome that i could read from tattered cover to tattered cover...
This book could have been an absolutely fantastic read, but I found it a little boring. The characters of Beth and Pat bored me. I thought the thought of a mother neglecting her children, even after the ordeal the family went through, would make me feel at least something, but I felt nothing. The author left out the love for her characters. What a shame. It just didn't grab me the way I hoped it would.
The Deep End of the Ocean is the most appallingly written novel I have ever read. Why do people like this nonsense, its terrible! I can't get past the poor sentence structures that are a trial to read and 0 dimension characters that drop in and out with no explanation. I am not too perturbed about characters that are unlikeable, in a well written story it can make for high drama. However, what I do expect is something that I can read without my eyes crossing with the horrible grammar and disjointed narrative structure. Headache inducing to say the least. I am not claiming to be an expert, I don't have a degree in creative writing and I'm not a teacher. My only kudos is that I read a lot. What does bug me is that Oprah sets herself up as a prophet of high literature and the sheeple will eat this mess up while ignoring other spectacularly well written and much more enjoyable novels. Last time I ever consider anything that is recommended by Oprah or any other celebrity. I'm considering going all 1940's and burning it.
I'm a retired middle school English teacher, now working part-time in a public library. I had heard some positive opinion about this book, and the summary written on the dustcover sounded intriguing. The fact that it was an Oprah book gave me considerable pause to question it's worth, but my ever-optimistic better side countered with the thought that I have, on rare occasion, found some of her choices to be good reads. So I subjected it to my 10% test. If a book engages me by the time I've read 10% of it, I'll finish it. If it doesn't, I don't waste further time on it.  It took quite a withdrawal from my mental bank of patience to make it through the first 10%. Some of my former students had a better ear for dialogue than this author; unfortunately, the story is told mainly by means of dialogue and the use of the main character's inner voice. "Show, don't tell" is a worthwhile writing technique in the hands of a skilled writer. It can make a reader feel as if he or she is part of the story, thus capturing and maintaining a high level of reader interest. It didn't work in this story. The potential for having a child kidnapped is an unspeakable horror that haunts any conscientious parent at some level and becomes a mental booster shot for our protective vigilance.  I've seen enough traumatized kids in over thirty years of teaching to feel great empathy for the kidnapped boy. I didn't give a damn about his mother. She is a narcissist, and the fawning attention she gets from having a child kidnapped is truly nauseating. A basic tenet of character creation is to make the character either likeable or worthy of at least grudging respect. Beth is neither. The other characters are as clumsily fleshed out.  I found nothing in this book that engaged my empathy or interest, so I did not waste further time on it. Life is too short to waste it on a book like this when there are so many thousands of better ones available.
I guess everyone is different but I like to read to either a) escape (books that are light-hearted with at least some likeable characters) or b) learn something new (such as non-fiction books or novels based on a true story). This book was neither of those so I don't see how anyone could have enjoyed it...if I want to see how messed up real-life is I'll just watch the news....  I don't mind the concept of making the reader guess/hope what the final outcome will be (will the family finally find some happiness now that Ben/Sam moves back?) but I never liked any of the adult characters and no one redeemed themselves at all. Even Dr. Kilgore the psychiatrist treating Vincent/Reese is a moron!  He never tells the parents that Reese has seen a kid who reminds him of his brother and 3 more years go by before they finally find him? At first I thought patient-doctor confidentiality but then Candy says SHE talks to the doctor so you know he would divulge something if he thought it was really Ben....  So all the adults were idiots and unlikeable (even the husband Pat), there are no heroes at all except probably George at the end for being gracious and kind. When Beth finally reaches her epiphany of saying they should give Ben/Sam back to George, I still was suspicious she was doing it because it was easier for her and not because she was displaying an unselfish mother's love.  The chapters from Reese's perspective were the best part because at least they felt believable and they were humorous in certain parts.  I agree with the other reviewer who said at first you want to slap Beth and then later you want to slap the author!  I'm ashamed to say I finished the book because I kept hoping it would get better. I didn't know this was an Oprah book club book...if I had I would have known better than to hope it would redeem itself....
DRIVEL - a waste of paper and a TOTAL waste of time.  Losing a child is an unbelievable tragedy.  I can only imagine.  However,the mother in this book just made me want to slap her silly.  Do not waste your money.  Her self-centered absorption is beyond credibility and tolerance.
This book ranks as the worst book that I have ever attempted to read.  The mother was unbelievable.  She was like a stork with her head stuck somewhere that it didn't belong.  She didn't behave like a parent whose child had disappeared.  I said that it was the worst book that I have ever attempted to read because I could not force myself to finish it even though it was going to be discussed at my book club.  I put it down after reading one hundred pages.  A week later, I picked it up and decided to do something that I had never done before.  I skipped all the way in the book to a point that was about four chapters from the end.  I did find out what had happened to the missing child but the book was still unreadable.  I didn't even read the last two chapters.  Pure nonsense!
This book was horrible. I have to say I did not like Beth (mom)  Vincent (big Bro) or Ben ( lil bro).  I think the mom is selfish, but I completly understand how when her child is kid napped she becomes a recluse and doesnt wanna see anyone not even her other children. She does some things in the book that I do not like when she gets her son back. No one would do that unless they like feeling sad.  I hate The older son, it was his fault that the younger brother was kid napped, at the beginning he always looked at his mom like he hated her. Towards the end I liked him better bc i felt bad for him.  I hated Ben, he didn't even think any bad thoughts towards the kidnappers. He said it was no thier faults, that made me sooo mad.  I did like the dad Pat. He was always by his wifes side, and his kids. He was the best character.  This book is not worth reading. The ending left you wondering what happened to the characters. I am annoyed after reading that.
Painful to read...no glory, no A-Ha Moment. Shlock. I am not a quitter. I finished it. Wish I hadn't picked it up...I trusted Oprah's pick; that was a LONG TIME ago: lesson learned.
I read this book because Oprah recommended it and I have to say I was confused as to why she recommended it. It was painfully and unnecessarily long and should have been edited better. As a parent, yes I can sympathize, but that doesn't make me like this book.
A girlfriend suggested I read this book, which I did from start to finish, and I found it to be very depressing.  Other reviewers have given a synopsis of the story, so I'll not duplicate their efforts.  While I understand the main characters are processing an event I pray no one in this world should have to deal with, I found no hope in the book at all.  Even though it has a what most would consider a positive outcome, I sense the characters would not have survived much beyond the window of their lives that we saw.  I did not feel my life was any the better for reading it and suggest you search elsewhere for a good story to read.
I couldn't finish it. Worse than a soap opera.
If company that picks voice actor think this was good choice for voice they are wrong. Dead wrong! It's read by a horrible voice of a old man. The parts of "BOOM BOOM" are read I wanted to break my speakers! His voice sounds like he's on his last words of his death bed. Sounds that he might be 90-100years old? They must have had him read for very cheap,or free can be the only logic. His voice was very very painful to listen to. I often wanted to skip chapters. I would never buy anything this voice actor reads. There are plenty of voice actor that could have read better. Even a female voice like Anne Hathaway would have been better than this old man.
This book is [bad].  Poorly written, 2-Dimensional characters, and a main character that made me want to gag.  This book should be the poster child for "Oprah's Bookclub".
Too bad there isn't a zero-star rating.  The reason it got such a lot rating:  I figured out every one of the plot twists 50 pages before they happened.  Michael Crichton also puts plot holes in his books that are large enough to drive a truck through but at least you don't recognize them way ahead of time.
I took this book out of the library thinking it was going to be a good, gripping, emotional read, my favorite kind.  While the beginning started  off well, it went STRAIGHT downhill from there.  This author may have a lot  of talent, but she sure could have fooled me with this book.  Outright, it  was horrible.  Beth, the mother, had to be the most disgusting character  recently written.  You just wanted to slap her.  She completely  - and  knowingly!  - ignored her two kids when Ben disappeared, and until he  returned.  The book was full of twisted metaphors (about two per line - can  you say OVERDOSE?)which made it difficult to concentrate on.  It starts out  with good, interesting supporting characters, who disappear halfway through  the novel.  No Grandma Rosie or Grandpa Angelo, even "best friend in  the world"  Ellen is barely mentioned after Ben is lost.  That, to me,  was completely ridiculous. With such a weak main character, a strong  supporting cast is a must, and they just disappeared.  Which centered the  book on Beth, a major mistake. And what was up with Candy?  Can you say  cliche?  Just thinking about the book now honestly makes my skin crawl. I'm  not trying to be overcritical, but it really was a bad book poorly written.  I don't know what Oprah could have been thinking!
Wow, what a bad book. The writing was mediocre, and character development  truly missing. Here are just a few of my frustrations with this book: Why  were some chapters named (Beth, Reese, etc.) and some not? What was the  point of that anyway?  Why does the author think 7 year old children like  opera? Why is she so interested in the way everybody smells? Why was Ben  really kidnapped? Why didn't Pat leave Beth? Why, Why, Why was this book a  best seller??
I saw the movie, Deep End of the Ocean. I thought, hey, the book might be good. It's not. Beth's thoughts are muddled, and confusing. It's hard to understand why she acts the way she does as no explanation was given other  than she's sad. It's terrible and I wouldn't reccomend it to anyone.
Shallow and unrealistic. Some characters and events not developed sufficiently. A waste of time.
Initially I found the book interesting. But it quickly  began to drag with side trips into Mom's slutty behavior which had little relevance to the plot.  Her unexplained bad treatment of her husband was a mystery, but I  kept reading.  Admittedly, even that didn't dissuade me from reading. At  times, the book showed glimmers of worthiness when it focused on the  remaining son and his feelings. But what finally did it was the  multitude of  metaphors which kept clogging the narrative--metaphors which  were occasionally brilliant but more often baffling. One particularly  horrid one referred to an emotion leaving the mom? (I believe it was the  mom as I don't have a copy and am working from memory). This emotion  (relief?)was compared to "water rolling off a rising submarine"  ?  Brother! I really had to laugh over that one!  Overall, I would not  have wasted my time with this book except I had borrowed it from a very  nice lady who said she had really enjoyed the book and I didn't wish to  hurt her feelings by not finishing a book she had loved.  As for me, I had  to force myself (like a submarine trying to submerge in wading pool! )  to finish.
Just as ms. Midland told us below, I only finished it because I felt compelled to finish the book since I started it. Beth Cappadora is a horrible person, she doesn't deserve to b married to such a wonderful person as Pat, and certainly doesn't deserve to have children.  I find  myself feeling the urge to spit in Beth's face and yell "You deserve  it."  She's not grieving, she's almost BORED, as if this was expected.  I would have done everything possible when I found out my child was  disappeared, put his face on the milk carton, all that stuff, not sit down  and have a drink for God's sake. You feel the need to push Beth out of the  way and call yourself the mother of the family as you watch the family  suffer under her idiotic depression.
Be prepared for a journey to the shallow end of the ocean, or the baby pool as the case may be. This book defies credibility--how could the boy be living just 2 blocks away for years? And the mother figure is completely  unsympathetic--I was hoping she would get bumped off at some point, but no  such luck. Remember, you can drown in shallow water just as easily as deep.
WHAT a disappointment - here I thought that if Oprah recommended Toni Morrison she knew something about good writing.  Sorry - NOT SO.  I bought this awful book from amazon.com and was absolutely unable to finish it - I  tried, honest!
Deep End of the Ocean was real drudgery. . . the endless introspection and emotional turmoil made for an arduous, unpleasant read.  I don't  mind emotional turmoil, but one has at least to care about the characters, which  I didn't.  I could not wait for the book to end! The only reason I did  manage the end, is not because that is usually my habit unless the book is  just too terrible and not because the book was designated by my book group,  which it was, but because it was glowingly recommended by a woman who's  intelligence I very much respect and who admire a great deal.  I kept on  trying to figure what she liked about this awful novel and thought that  maybe the next page or the next chapter would reveal it. The book was a  real grind and I was very glad to finally reach the end and put it aside!
Didn't like this book at all; it's overly descriptive to the point of being boring.
Excellent story and journey; kept me coming back as quickly as I possibly could.
The series started out so good. I'm not even half way through this book and sick of it. And yes I mean sick. There are things I would rather not know someone could think up. Instead of a story line it seems to be all about shock factor now for the TV series. Guess he is out of good plot ideas.
Was this supposed to be a mystery novel, with clues duly planted? A harlequin romance, with that former lover/classmate thing? And what's with the random Vincent chapters? (Didn't work.) Were Mom and Vincent the only ones with feelings? Regardless, I couldn't feel sympathy for ANY character. Her writing style meandered irrationally, her plot twists were unbelievable (a quick photo shoot for Life Magazine, right.)   I wanted to quit after the first 100 pages or so, but hoped it would get better. Take my advice, don't even start reading this book.
God almighty, what bad writing. I'm not talking about plot or characterization or landscape. I'm talking about sentence structure. Paragraphs. Grammar. The fundamentals. I couldn't find my way through half the sentences, they were so clunky and burdensome. She uses dashes with abandon, and parenthetical clauses that go completely off track. I couldn't get past page 29; it was too painful. Oprah did readers a grave disservice.
There was not a single enduring character in the story. The mother, Beth, infatuated me with her irresponsible attitude towards the rest of the family. The story was extremely choppy and hard to follow. I didn't waste my time finishing the book as I didn't care what happened to any of the characters.  I cannot understand what all the fuss was in reguard to this book.
The Deep End of the Ocean started out with a bang -- the kidnapping of Ben, but went down hill from there. Once he was discovered, I felt page after page of monotony, and could have put the book down anytime.  Spend your money on other books.  R.STROUD U.S.
I read it years ago and loved...read it recently and did not like it at all!
On and on and on.  It is  time for s conclusion.  Every story should an ending and none is in sight.
WTF?! I've been reading this fing series for a year and this is the ending?
Terrible violent story. Wish I'd never read it.
Terrible
The letters were to small for me to read.
I think the story was good but seemed way too long . Too many details. Seemed to change tenses frequently.
I found the woman  single minded in her path to succeed was pathological, and consequently found the book very boring and without any redeeming value.
I got the distinct impression that the author wasn't even interested any more. Like he was just filling the pages because he had to. I couldn't even finish it.
I ordered and paid for the NEW BOOK, I have received second hand book my attempt to resolve the issue, have been handled by your staff, unprofessionally, arrogantly, and so far I am to return your OLD BOOK back, but there is no provision for - REPLY PAID, why I have to pay for the postage to return the book, that you made a mistake. I am wasting my time to attend to all this, when only thing I wanted was a NEW book that I ordered and paid for thank you
Bad quality and wrong definitions. Authors obviously lacking elementary knowledge. Not worth wasting time and money.
I got A Woman of Substance from the library, hoping it would entertain me for a day or so. It was so bad I skipped the middle half and just read the last chapter. Horribly cliched writing, unidimensional characters. I don't usually write reviews, but I was so annoyed to see the 5-star rating, I had to. Sorry!
Make sure NOT to start liking any of the characters that act half way decent because they'll be dead soon
Many modern acronyms missing. Good for propping your desk, though.
I was disappointed with this book.  Many of the definitions are superficial and shallow.  Several comments/ explanations are completely misleading, based on questionable sources.  We expect more from such  reputable publisher, not to feel like flipping through tabloid publication.  It seems that edition has been completed in a hurry.
Does not meet expectations. Bad quality and wrong definitions. Authors obviously lacking elementary knowledge. Not worth wasting time and money.
Well, this looks to be the last book in a very exciting series until...? For the reason of wanting more, I would not recommend reading this book. There are no concrete plans to release the next book, so why read 75% of something?
As part of a $250.00 order, I ordered the Michelin France Provence map in English, and the Michelin 2006 Red Guide France: Hotels and Restaurants in English - both Items they sent me were written in French, which are of no value to me.  I requested a shipping label to return the map and the book and asked they send me the English versions. The Amazon Outsourcing Desk in India refused both request.  I requested an American Amazon Customer Service Manager contact me on this Issue.  That has never happened.  I am also being asked my Satisfaction on a 3d book - Markets Of Provence - which they never sent me.  The remainder of my $250.00 order were the English Versions, as ordered.  My Overall Satisfaction:  Well below the 1 Star shown.  Actual Satisfaction "F Minus" for all departments in Amazon and far less for their very poor Customer Service and lack of ethical follow-up for their mistake.
Way too much minutia and the trashy language was over the top.  The final book was the biggest disappointment.  It was as though the author stopped in mid-sentence.  This was not a true clift hanger, just a sudden stop.
This book had gratuitous violence, and no real resolution of the series.
Goes on and on and nothing good happens ever! All the good people die. Ugh!  Too wordy bc am skip sections and notes anything. Too confusing. To May parallel plots.
Page after plodding page of soulless, shallow characters popping up like rabbits out of a hat, trite dialogue, silly character names, and endless, pointless descriptions of minutiae, but no discernible plot. I couldn't even bring myself to "love to hate" Cersei anymore. I just don't care. This was pure filler, a placeholder until the next questionable "bestseller" by an author who clearly has lost interest in his narrative (wait, was there a narrative?) . After three pretty good books, the fourth was a struggle. The fifth? Face it, George, you've killed it.
El libro es de ciencia ficcin, no pretende descri bir la realidad. Y como libro de ciencia ficcion, hay que reconocer que al autor se le va la olla :-)
This is fiction. I know it quite well, because I am Spanish and live in Spain, a couple of miles away from the Royal Palace where Clancy's wicked General is getting ready to start a civil war. We are very fortunate the Americans will not tolerate it this time (they did when it really happened, 60 years ago, but...). Anyway, okay, this is fiction, this is a novel, no harm intended. But the least you can do when you locate your fiction in a real country, where real people live, is learning a little about it and them. From this point of view, Mr. Clancy's Ghost Writer's book is simply ridiculous. I do not mean a civil war could not happen in Spain. It could happen in the USA, or France, or any other country in the world--especially within a fictitious scenario, where the writer is in control of the necessary catastrophes--. But, frankly, "Balance of Power" depicts a country that does not exist in any of its details. It would have been a much more honest book if the author had set the action in the usual "imaginary country."  Now, how do you counterbalance the negative effect on the image of Spain this book --which will sell by the millions in the whole world-- will generate? What when they make the film? Really, I do not want to approach this issue as if it was a serious one. It is not. It is just ludicrous. I just wish Mr. Clancy had never had this ten-minute talk about Spain he most probably had with somebody from Gods knows where who spent his or her Summer holidays in Spain in 1939. Sorry, not a reliable source of information.  A very silly book.
I can't get this to work on my Kindle. I spent hours with a Kindle rep and I still can't read it on my Kindle. Very frustrated
When it asks how you would describe the plot of the book, the only options given are: predictable/some twists/full of surprises ... I picked "full of surprises"  because of how BAD the plot is; it's very surprising to see something like this supposedly from Tom Clancy. ( I couldn't rate the mood because they don't offer the choice of "boring.")  This is a third-rate novel that doesn't come anywhere near the quality, depth and intelligence of the other Tom Clancy novels I've read. The characters are just names that go through certain comic-book motions; there is no depth to them, you don't know their motivations or feelings, you can't identify with them.  The story is basically a set of variations on bombing and shooting.  If I were Tom Clancy I would be ashamed to have my name linked to this.  There is a co-author (Steve Pieczenik) who is probably the one responsible for the amateurish, low-quality work.  Unless you're just looking for mindless distraction, don't waste your money or your time here.
Very disappointed with books 4 and 5 in this series. Really tough to read - not much going on, endless pages of mind-numbing wandering around, jumping all over the place. I may be done with this author and this series.
The author has little knowledge of elite military units and how they are organized.  Additionally, the author does not know about current military hardware.  In the book, the author uses military aircraft that have been retired for over twenty years.  In sum this is a poor tome and not worth taking the time to read.
I can see why the Spainards hate this book. I have never been to Spain and besides Medieval history and Franco of course I don't know much about the nation beyond the norm. However, the idea of Spain turning into genocidal Balkans is just silly to me. Yes it happened in the 1930's but many things happened in the 1930's a time of insanity and hate.  Also the pyschobabble was just plain annoying to me. "She was there when Martha was killed, the guilt is going to put her into shock and paralize her!" Right and that is why whole armies stop fighting when they lose comrades. Stupid and not even close to human reality and just plain annoying to read.  I will stay away from Clancy and the techno-thriller crap. Bring back some good old cold war novels those were his master pieces. This sucks will not bother picking anymore up when I see them.
I was astonished how a well-reputed researcher as Tom Clancy could just mess up so bad when talking about the character of the Spaniards and political scene of Spain. It is a so respectless towards any Spanish speaking person, not only Spaniards. Plus, it shows no knowledge or interest at all on our country. American novelists should create fantastic countries that fit their misconcepts and desires, like Banania, Antiamerica or whatever. Check out "Digital fortress" by Dan Brown or the movie "Mission : Impossible 2" by John Woo. Exactly the same disdain.
It's a third and probably the last Clancy's book that I have read (or bought, anyways). The plotlines are more than predictable, and Clancy's trademark bad guys killing bad guys killing bad guys being courageously killed by good guys is somewhat less entertaining than it used to be in the Red Storm Rising. Even the lengthy military acronyms and denominations appearing here and there (like "each was armed with a Z-62 submachine gun or a Modelo L-1-003 rifle adapted to accomodate standard M-16 magazines") seem to be out of place. I have a feeling that any Spaniard would laugh outloud at the novel's settings and Spanish realia. Ironically, the best (or just entertaing) pieces are not the battle scenes or gadget descriptions, but the personal thoughts of an Op-center officer, whose marriage is heading towards a divorce. To sum up - I guess that Tom Clancy just couldn't deal with the collapse of the evil Soviet Union, and the best of his books are unfortunately in the past. Just where the Soviet Union is.
For an author renown for his meticulous research on his previous books, Tom Clancy has definitely not done his homework on Balance of Power.  His lack of understanding (& ignorance) of the present political/social  situation in Spain is incredible, to say nothing about the totally  unrealistic plot of the book - laughable. It is obvious to this reader that  the author has never spent any time in Spain.  As a Spanish reader, I found  his characterization of Spaniards one dimensional & totally demeaning.  As for his use of the Spanish language, I suggest he use a proper Spanish  dictionary. Personally, I think Tom Clancy has confused the situation in  Yugoslavia or maybe Russia & tried to apply it to modern day  Spain. In conclusion, Balance of Power is a badly written book (where was  the editor? ), with an unrealistic plot.  DONT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS  DOG!
Mr Clancy wrote this book in a South American airport in the fifty,s during one of the juntas sponsored by U.S.A. and now he updated the story based in the serbs & croat problen,He totally miss. I lived in the  States 8 years,and there is lack of knowledge of the rest of our wonderfull  world by most of their citicens,but Mr Clancy is supossed to be literaly  basicaly educated and presumes to be security advisor to the  Precidency(GOD,HELP US).There you have the generalization that all  U.S.Americans are ignorants. I know is a fiction book but most of your  fellows will think Spain is like that,dont mind the plot,but the facts,as  realistics as a Lone Ranger story.
Being from San Sebastin and living in Madrid, I was immediately drawn to  this book when I saw that the action starts in these two cities.  I  finished the first 100 pages out of curiosity, the rest of the book out of  sheer masochism. The story is poor and full of stereotypes, the  "historical facts" are wrong, the research was done without  leaving the plane at the Barajas airport, and the characters are from a  Scooby Doo cartoon (my favourites are the fisherman and the priest)...even  at some points the book turns completely "kitsch" (asking a  shepherd for directions in San Sebastian??). There is not worse lie than  a half-truth, and the book is full of them.  I know it is just a novel, but  I expected a bit more refinement from Mr. Clancy et al.
I have long praised T.C. novels for being so real-sounding and accurate  depicting characters and events no matter where the action did take place.  Now that I know firsthand the real background in this one, I wonder whether  all those detailed facts that I enjoyed so much have the same in common  with reality as here. I can't help but feeling somewhat cheated, Mr. Clancy.  Your novel lacks verosimilitude from the very first page! Most names,  expressions, concepts used sound rather Latin-American than genuinely  Spanish, or purely invented.. When I think of Gen. Amadori I imagine an  Argentinian-Junta general rather than a spanish military. I use to enjoy  sci-fi stories, but the ones with aliens and robots. And those Op-center  super brains, well, I sincerely hope that such an agency will never exist,  to the benefit of us all. Please come back with new exciting  techno-thrillers and I will convince myself that some other Tom Clumsy  wrote this book instead of you. ;-)
Is one of the most riduculous books I have ever read. I used to enjoy  Clancy books and Red Storm Rising and The Hunt for the Red October are  still between my favorites. But in this case I can`t stop myself from  writing this. I hope Mr. Clancy will ever come to Spain to meet the people  and the society of this country. Or at least next time he will read  something about modern Spain. Maybe he thinks we are a poor South American  country!
The first 120 pages consist of trite, stereotypical dialogues between nearly two dozen agency directors and various bureaucrats(mostly in Wash., DC). There is no focus on one particular person and hence ruins the reader's interest, let alone empathy. The language lacks sparkle and originality. The book ends with the typical and foreseeable carnage that is as boring as it is unrealistic. I hope no one gets the idea of making another worthless movie from the gore.
An Op-Centre attempt to stop a new Spanish civil war from occurring, with its attendant bloodshed, betrayal, and other problems' seems to be an ideal setting for a tense action-packed read. However, this novel doesn't live up to it's cover blurb. The action sequences (for want of a better term) are a little disjointed and frankly unbelievable. The other scenes are lacklustre and boring. Balance of Power seems to be written to a standard formula which requires little imagination for the reader to absorb. The Op-Centre series, and this novel in particular, does not meet the expectations of Tom Clancy's fans. I suspect that Mr. Clancy regrets lending his name to this embarrassing series, which he probably no longer has creative control over.
For those people who enjoy reading this kind of literature, this may be a gripping, can't-put-it-down kind of book. But for anybody who has any idea about Spain and its people, it is a complete joke...I know it is fiction, but the author didn't bother to write a note explaining that, like serious authors do. And I'm afraid that many readers are going to believe all the absurdities that are said about Spain in this book. True facts and names are mixed with fiction in a dangerous way. The American president's name is Lawrence, but the Spanish prime minister and king keep their real names, why?..I have to admit though, that I had some good laughs with this book. It is evident that a computer translation program was used to make the characters speak Spanish. The result is hilarious: not even the Spanish characters can speak Spanish! And no wonder the Op-Center diplomat is shot to death at the beginning of the novel: "Fusilar!" doesn't mean "gunman!"; it means "shoot!"
Martin should have quit a long time before he published this book. He ran out of ideas and action and all he does is have his characters talk, talk, talk. And there are way too many characters. It seems like he is interested in fantasy genealogy rather than storytelling.
I have waited awhile to post a review of this mess and, in looking at the other reviews, I find them saying the same things I would say. The plot seemed as aimless as King Stannis in a snowstorm. I am sick to death of page after page after pointless page of banquet menu items and clothing descriptions. Why were we subjected to Quentyn Martell's odyssey? And let  me say that I find it a bit insulting that central and powerful characters are killed off,  forgotten, or turned into trees when they could help move the story along. I read the last 300 pages of this mess MAD because I realized nothing was going to be resolved oe advanced. I drew three conclusions. First, there cannot have been amy real or effective editor helping put this book together. Second, I do not think Martin himself knows whete this series is going, or how it will end, or how to get to the end. Thirdly, I don't care anymore. I will not waste any more money or time on this. I assume he will just kill off some more interesting characters when he gets another block. I gave it one star because you have to give at least one. I would like to give it zero, or a negative rating for the time I wasted on this mess. Oh, did I repeat myself...great...now I write like Martin.
I am drowning in loose ends in this book.  Nothing is resolved.  No hint of resolution is on the horizon. New people pop out of thin air to join the chaos and mayhem. When you think a character is dead................ well they may not be.  So many other reviews have stated this so much better but after reading this book I just had to add my voice. Someone needs to give GRRM a rope so he can tie this mess up and get some plot movement.
I enjoyed books 1-4. But, book 5 was very disappointing. Hundreds of pages but the story moves very very slowly. I think the cast of characters has gotten too large. We don't hear much, if anything of several of the key characters from books 1-4. And, the new characters just aren't that interesting or developed. The story of book 5 feels very disjointed with significant gaps and very few resolutions or conclusions. To me it reads as if a team of people wrote book 5.  There is no way the TV series will follow the plot of the 5th book - just too boring.
I am enjoying reading the book. So far I am only a quarter of the way through. The history of Ireland has always interested me as I spent 6 months of my high school education at a girls' school in Dublin in the 1950's. It was mandatory that I learn the Irish Gaelic language of which I remember only a few phrases.
This is what happens when a baseball team gives a pitcher a multi year deal and a huge payday. It is based on his past accomplishments, then the pither gets fat, doesn't practice, just phones it in and spends his time bragging about the glory days.  GRRM is done.  I'm done also.  I can't invest any more time in this story.  At this point, I'll just watch HBO to see how it ends.  That story is going to be a different version than the books, but who cares?  I don't think GRRM ever had an actuial ending for this story.  It was a good premise and had some interesting plot twists, but now it just like LOST.  Unresolved mysteries, storylines that go no where, new characters that mean little, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.  Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.......................blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.......................  A final thought.  Dear GRRM, please end this series. Don't write anything else.  Just chop the head off this thing and be done with it.
Only received part 2 in the mail. Getting a refund.
I thought the 4th book was overly long and wordy with nothing happening at all to advance the plot. This book is even worse. There's way too many characters, too many POVs and this series has gotten to be a giant waste of time. I got half way through it and quit.  I have a huge issue with any book series that becomes more and more bloated with each book, while the story doesn't advance at all (I'm also looking at you "Dark Tower Series).  I've had enough of this crap... I'm done with this series.  If you're looking for an amazing fantasy series, where each book is as good or better than the previous one, a series where characters matter, every word matters, where heroes and gods life, love and die, where you will laugh and cry  - try the Malazan Book of the Fallen Series.
I really wanted to enjoy this book. There were a few good moments, but this is the second weakest installment in the series. Definitely not worth a five year wait.  I guess that's what happens when an author spends five years writing about the NFL, making calendar updates on his blog, and attending conventions more than working on the book.
The author has clearly lost his way. He has no idea how to deal with this monster he has created. Too many characters with too much time in between their respective chapters that you forget where they are and what they are doing. It shouldn't be that much work to  read. Book four was hard enough to ge through, but this one I stopped reading half way. I had so much hope for a better story line.
Was missing 8 chapters.  :/
I finally got around to reading this book and its a phenomenal book but the copy has about 3 chapters missing and the pages were replaced with previous chapters just printed again in the book. Unable to continue reading until I get another copy.
A slog to get through.  I only hope the TV show can somehow save this boring mess.  The first three books of this series were fine but the last two were dull and slow moving with no resolution.
With each book I read I become more discussed with the author.  His plan is simple. Add more characters and kill off anyone you may care about.
Despite himself Martin's efforts to write a fantasy without any of the the beauty and seriousness of Tolkien were still quite enjoyable in the first few books. That was before the purile grimdark elements, faux-medievalisms, self-conscious fan-services comic-book cliffhangers and repetitious drudgery set in. It was also a solid story based upon the (War of the Rosesish) conflict between the Starks and the Lannisters.  I think Christopher Tolkien's comment on the movie treatment of his father's work is relevant:  "Hollywood has turned Tolkien into a monster, devoured by his own popularity and absorbed into the absurdity of our time. The chasm between the beauty and seriousness of the work, and what it has become, has overwhelmed me. The commercialization has reduced the aesthetic and philosophical impact of the creation to nothing. There is only one solution for me: to turn my head away."  Any attempt to compare Martin with Tolkien is as absurd (some hack wrote "Martin is the American Tolkien") as comparing Uwe Boll to Orson Welles. Martin has no integrity and from his own comments is happy to jump on whatever gravy train he can. Whereas Tolkien would be appalled with the commercialization and dumbing-down of his work, Martin revels in it (the TV series taking it even greater depths). Hence the initially conceived trilogy becomes a tedious slog for him to write (in between signings and sycophant love ins) and for the poor readers who get sent out of Westeros and put up with out of character de-trasformations (Dany and Tirion) and bland new characters as padding for the ones "shockingly" killed off.  I am turning my head away.
I don't like any of the books
Very disappointing.  Nothing was resolved after 1000 pages, too many story lines, and most of the characters that I was interested in have now been killed.
Don't bother with this series.  It is too difficult to follow.  Perhaps it is easier to understand on TV.
This book is an obvious ploy to pull money out of the fans, new and old, who are dedicated to the series.  This book is meandering and useless.  I give it one stars because Martin does have a bright storytelling writing style that keeps one entertained for a hot second.  Unfortunately the reader soon realizes that all the nose picking and bone tossing that masks for action and plot is just a ruse to get another 600+ page book deal.  Characters are introduced then tossed, main character go around in circles and do nothing, plot, story and pacing are sacrificed to the weight of the amount of words describing pointless interactions.  Is Martin getting paid by the word?  If Martin defends this as the way things really in matter of politics and whatever, he should then also remember that his books are categorized as  FANTASY SCI-Fi, PARANORMAL.  Most of us read this stuff to get away from the petty politics and meanness of our daily lives. I started reading the books because of the HBO series.  The first two were much like the show the 3rd diverged a little but kept the spirit and exciting pacing.  The 4th was tough to slog through and now on the 5th book I find it is unbearable.  I sincerely hope the HBO series does not follow this storyline.
Though the book is advertised as the fifth part of the A Song of Ice and Fire serial, that is not what is offered. The only thing that A Dance with Dragons offers is a deep disinterest (resentment even) of its author towards the story started with Game of Thrones. George Martin doesn't care about almost any of his characters anymore. Every single Lannister, Stark and Targaryen has been transformed into one-dimensional lukewarm generic fantasy genre character. There is no depth, no wit, no plot twists, no heart, no soul, just plainly visible author's tedium in superhuman effort to reach the word quota.  The only exception is Theon Greyjoy. Theon "beep" Greyjoy, a minor character that I really don't know who cares about. This plotwise divergent arc is the only part of the book where George Martin shows some semblance of personal interest in the character and the corresponding story.  A Dance with Dragons is, without competition, the worst book in the epic fantasy genre. A rock bottom, definitely not worth reading. I feel really sorry for all the students of creative writing who have this book in their curriculum, and my deepest commiseration for all the teachers who have to analyze it with their students.  Other than the prime example of how books should not be written, A Dance with Dragon may serve as a mortal insult, provided that you have the means to defend yourself after you give it to someone.
just perverted and evil
Okay, others have written at length why this book sucks. For those of you who care where this is going read the end of the book, because that's the only place where anything of importance happens.
I thoroughly enjoyed the first 3 books. But starting at book 4, Martin introduces numerous characters whom I don't care about. He's abandoned the wonderful stories of Arya, Sansa, and Bran. Rickon seems to have dropped off the planet without anyone remembering he ever lived! Jon hasn't made progress on anything, while Daenerys  is a lovestruck bimbo who settles for someone you hope would just die like so many others. And as usual, Daenerys wanders around accomplishing nothing.  Why would Martin abandon the wonderful character of Littlefinger, Brienne, Jaime, and Varys? It doesn't make sense.  Another thing Martin does in these 2 books is start a chapter with the POV in a drastically different situation he/she was in when last seen several hundred pages earlier. Then you have to read dozens of pages to figure out how they got into their current situation. Talk about backstory! Beginning writers are told to avoid backstory like the plague and this obvious genius uses it as some kind of cute (but annoying) trick.   To be honest, I've skimmed most of books 4 and 5 just to see what happened to the Stark children, but so far, at page 900, I've been disappointed. What a ripoff! I suggest reading to book 3, then use your imagination to craft a satisfying ending.
The content of the book is fine.  The book itself is bad.  It was advertised as a hardback copy and it is.  The problem is that it is the size of a paperback.  The book is over 1.000 pages of small print.  It is very difficult to read.  If I had know this was not a full size hardback edition I would not have purchased it and I advise others to not buy this book
Kept hoping for a coherent plot but that never materialized.  Five books later, I have wasted a lot of time
I have read many reviews that agree with my feelings of what is wrong with this book and state them very well.  In fact, many of the negative reviews are highly entertaining, and worth reading on their own merit. Since others have stated much better than I can what is wrong,  I will not go into too much detail, but the flaws are lack of editing, lack of story progression, too many cliffhangers, and too many characters. Every character almost seems to be traveling slowly somewhere but they never arrive.  The book had some good stuff hidden in the dreck. Particularly the Theon/Reek stuff was not bad.  I almost gave it two stars but really feel the book along with book 4 really drags a good series down. Also, the violence level was amped way up (in a series already known for its violence) and it felt gratuitous rather than adding to the story. Overall it felt like the events in this book could have been summed up in one prologue chapter at the start of the next novel and would have been more satisfying of a read.  Hope the next book is better. Will probably read it since I like the show and have read this far, but won't rush to get it.
The other one- and two-star reviews pretty much sum up why this book is abysmal.  I stopped reading at around 800 pages.  I just couldn't bring myself to finish it.  To say it is bloated and labored is being kind.  Characters talking ad nauseam about nothing. So little plot progression in so many pages.  The first three books were genius, then it went downhill from there. Ah Mr. Martin, where has the great story teller gone?
Most tedious and most annoying book of his, my feel he is milking his success with the previous books, which is understandable , had to get it just because I red the previous books, well, people buy it , so I guess it's a success.
Only got through the first 800 pages then returned it to the library.  Glad I didn't spend money on this one. I'm still having nightmares of the rape and flaying scenes.  I guess you can think of it as a collection of short one chapter character studies.  There are a number of new people that are introduced and they often don't last longer than that one chapter.  Certainly isn't worth the money and time; there are a number of better books waiting to be read.
I would never dream that I was qualified to review a work based on it's literary merits, I can only voice my opinion as a reader who enjoys this genre.  After plodding  through book 4, the masochistic in me started book 5 because SURELY this was going to wrap up all the loose ends and come to a conclusion. Boy was I wrong! I should have known, it's just the script for a made for Tv soap opera and it will NEVER end! I should have gone on line sooner to see that there are plans for 2 (!) more books. Is there a literary equivalent of 'jumping the shark'?
He has obviously sold out.  AFFC and ADWD aren't worth anyone's time as a whole.  Maybe 15 chapters are worthy of your time, the rest is just drivel.  He should probably stop taking vacations or business trips 21 of 30 days in a month and devote himself to the books that actually made him famous.
This book is loaded with fluff and fillers. Everything of importance could have been kept to a few chapters. Unfortunately, it has to be read for the important information.
Thank you Mr. Martin.  You are the first author I have given up on because of being lazy and putting out bad workmanship.
Slow moving, wordy and not really worth even getting into since most likely the author will be gone before anything really important happens in these books.
Let me start by saying R.L. Stine was my favorite author in middle and high school.  When I found this book at a local thrift shop I was THRILLED!  Then I actually started to read it...  This is the most laughable book I've ever read, and not in a good way.  I found myself laughing at all the "serious" points throughout the book, especially the "love making" scene because it was so clinical and terribly written, and that was just ONE example of many awful scenes.  I really don't understand.  How can this be the same author who has written so many wonderful YA books?? You couldn't pay me enough to read this book again.  I feel like he just doesn't have what it takes to write adult novels. Such a shame. Fear street was amazing.
I got this book and read what the inside the cover said about it. It looked interesting. As I started the first few pages i was beginning to wonder what it was that I was reading. I started to skip pages because I "sex scenes", just a little too much,.....how to put this, stupidly written. I LOVE reading horror and have read a lot of horror. And this isn't it. There isn't that much talk of sex in the other books. It's more like a book written for male teenagers, talking about looking at women's breasts constantly. Not sure if I'll even finish it at this point. This book stinks!
I'm so invested in these books and characters that I am having trouble not finishing this book. It is clear to me that after something like 5000 pages, no plot line will ever be resolved, favorite characters will be pointlessly killed off or ignored and dozens of new superfluous characters will arrive.  It is all tease but never delivers anything. There are thousands of much better things to read, I wish I could have my time and money back.
SPOILER ALERT: George r.r. martin is a putz. Any author that kills off the main character at the END of a book should never be published again. PERIOD. Note, it's been 3 years since he wrote it, with no resolution. I will never read another George rr f.---ing Martin book again.
I actually rate this book with no star at all but the system said I made a mistake by not rating it.  My mistake was in reading this garbage.  Gross!  Horrible!  I cannot rate this book low enough.  Do not waste your money or your time.  I am so sorry that I wasted mine.
Don't be tempted to try reading this horrible excuse for an "adult novel".  Stine should stick to writing his horror for children.  This book was simply terrible.  Why I finished it is beyond me, maybe I wanted to see just how bad it could get.  And believe me, that's pretty bad.  I found myself laughing aloud at the silly story and juvenile characters.  I don't think I've ever read a book this surprisingly stupid. It's easy to see why this was published;  Stine writes the incredibly popular 'Goosebumps' and 'Fear Street' series.  But 'Superstitious' is so embarassingly terrible.  The writing is very simple, only the sex scenes can rise this above the young adult genre.  Every scene seems contrived and unbelievable.  The characters are so poorly drawn we never really care much what happens to them.  Kill them off?  That would be a blessing. I gave this one a try, having read a few 'Fear Street' books as a young teen; having also been into Christopher Pike books as well, I expected this effort to be more like one of his adult novels.  Not even close.  Don't read this book unless you want to experience a really, really badly written one.  Nothing else I've ever read can compare to the dismal disappointment of 'Superstitious'.  You have been warned.
I think that this is the worst book that I have ever read.  I started disliking it early on, but I finished it because once I start a book I always finish it. A quiet college campus suddenly becomes a killing  ground.  An unseemly professor with a quirk for superstition seems to be  involved or know all of the murder victims. Is this a coincidence, or is  it superstition? Read the book... if you dare!
Language and imagery continue to get more illicit. The only characters that I still liked in the series keep getting killed.
I don't know why I persisted through these 5 books.  Words, words and more words.  Martin evidently doesn't know how to write a tale that has a beginning, a middle and an end.  He jumps from one thread to another without ever wrapping up anything.  Bah!
numerous characters were introduced, discussed, and then forgotten.  the graphic sex was way overdone.  no mention of good characters, who in the end, survived.  there was no happy ending for anyone in the story.  evil won.
I'm emotionally invested in the characters, but nothing seems to happen. When some plot lines starts to get interesting the book shifts to a new character. Disappointing, I hope they do a better job of the 4th season on HBO.
The author has unnecessarily elaborated several episodes which becomes difficult to concentrate on the actual plot. Lot of diversity has ruined a good story.
I loved Ninja, Miko, White Ninja, etc.  I was really excited to see this book, but it was just atrocious.  Instead of focusing on martial arts, danger, intrigue, Asian philosophy and culture, this book gets more into the supernatural.  So it's kind of like Harry Potter meets Enter the Dragon...and it mostly takes place in Italy, which is not really an appropriate setting for a Linnear novel.  It was so bad, just awful.
I read this book because over the years a few of my friends have recommended the author -- this is the only reason I finished it. I ended up hating the book, the author, the friends... and myself for not throwing it away.  I won't bother describing the story or characters -- you can get that from other reviews here.  I'll just tell you that the writing style is tedious and boring, and the plot is just dumb.  The endless use of stupid similes and analogies, the descriptions of mystic thoughts and ideas that are meaningless but go on for pages, the inane deductions of the characters that just won't stop.. and these are the highlights...  Did I mention the unbelievable events and coincidences?  How about the Vietnamese psychopath assassin that falls in love with the mafia don's sister?  Or the ex-cop with a bionic hand on special assignment for the corrupt FBI agent who falls for the same woman (I'm not making this up!)?  Or this woman's mafia husband who, with the help of his two gun-toting henchmen, catches them in a hotel cheating on him -- but lets them both go?  My favorite is the mysterious Venetian girl who turns out to be her sister.  Then there is the Japanese yakuza and American mafia working together for some unknown reason (the main premise of the book!)  And aren't we all tired of the required secret society behind everything bent on taking over the government?  This is my first review -- I'm taking the time to write this so you won't waste yours on this piece of crap.
Ugh: long sections of landscape details with no point, lots of really really minor characters tediously described. Virtually nothing in the way of advancing the plot. Tiresome descriptions of pus, blood, and wounds ad nauseum. Only there for shock value. I loved the first 3 books. 4 and 5 are just plain boring. Won't be buying anymore of this series.
The book was advertised in good condition, but what arrived had significant water and wear damage.  Still readable, but only just.
... I... Why GRRM? Why? I officially hate this series. Book one was fantastic. It was suspenseful, had good characters, great plot twists, a good (Though extremely flawed) world, and a good storyline. I didn't like book 2, I thought it was boring and drawn out, but it wasn't a bad book, I just didn't like it. Book three is amazing. It's one of the best fantasy books ever, and surpassed by few (Mainly the father of all fantasy, Tolkien). Book four was a piece of garbage. I hate to admit it exists. But could book five be the next A Storm Of Swords? Well, it could've been, but it sure as hell isn't. I can't decide whether or not I hate A Feast For Crows, or A Dance With Dragons more. They are both awful books. I hate to see A Song Of Ice And Fire come to this. Books 1-3 are amazing. But now it's a drawn out, poorly written piece of crap.
What started out as a potentionally great saga,  turned into a dragged out mess.  What could have been great story telling was instead a great let-down, with a stupid ending.  Don't take the time to read this saga, especially if you enjoy strong roles for women, as you will be disappointed in every way.
Book 1 and 2 were good. Three was confusing and four was even more disjointed.  It was a struggle to stay with the story.
I wouldn't recommend this book.  Just as I thought I had all the characters straight from the previous books, a whole slew of new characters were introduced in this book and to tell you the truth, i didn't know who or what he was talking about half the time.  Just when I was about to give up on the book, he would go back to a familiar character so I did finish the book.  I did like the continuing story of the characters from the previous books.  Disappointed overall and won't waster my time reading any more books in this series that come out in the future.  I'll just watch it on HBO.
Every time I like somebody, Mr. Martin kill him. I decided stop buying his books, and stop reading anything written by him.
I thought Martin had hit rock bottom in the last book, so I thought 'no where to go but up', right?  WRONG!  Sideways is evidently a new direction for authors, who have obviously never taken 10th grade English and do not know what plot sequence means. I do not know who the other 3000 or so people are who gave this book 3,4,or 5 stars, but they must be on someone's payroll, (wink wink), because this series is just getting worse and worse. Do not waste your money. I used an Amazon credit, so thankfully, I am not feeling too swindled. If you feel you must read this, get it from the Library.
Loved the first book in the series. Second book was entertaining but starting to wander. Third book finished because you just knew this had to be going somewhere. Fourth book was rediculout. Got Book Five (this one) because having invested so much energy into the series just hated to admit defeat. Alas. This whole series should be compressed into at most 2 volumes. Everything after the first 2 is just an exercise in Martin seeing how many silly unrelated plot twists can be squeezed onto the printed page to fill up space to sell more books.  It's disapointing because some/lots/all of the stuff left hanging from the frist 2 books could be nicely brought together to make a nice epic. But no.  Read the first 2 books and pretend it's the end. Oh, and you can't start anywhere but the beginning.
I have never rated a book before but after reading this one I have to say it was not worth my time. I had read other reviews and thought it couldn't be as bad as the reviews said, but it was. It had absolutely no flow to it. No one ever reaches where they are supposed to go. And the one person I liked the most was killed? Bran is still living beneath a tree? And what happened to Tyrion? For as long as it took George Martin to write this book, it could have been so much better.
There are far too many characters now, and the plot line is just meandering along aimlessly. This story has truly lost its way. I loved the first three books in this series, but I have been extremely disappointed with books 4 and 5. I'm sorry to say that I will not bother reading the next book; my time is worth too much to waste any more of it on this story.
As an "author" Mr Martin has sold out to Hollywook.  He is hacking together a soap opera instead story.  George needs to learn how to finish a series.  When he has proven he can do that, I may read another of his books.  Until then, I lump him in with Robert Jordan or Paolini - good starter, but not enough original thought to finish the process.  There are too many fine authors to waste my time on hacks.
I love the way the author created families from the first men to the present. All his books are masterfully crafted in the cadence of time. From beginning to end (Winter is Coming) spellbinding.  Amazon
Congrats! Coming from someone who reads scores of books a year, you are the first author that I have quit in mid book since junior high (I'm in my mid 40's and the only other winner of this award goes to Charles Dickens "a tale of two cities") and the first series that I have ever given up on. For all of you praising this piece of flowery, go no where junk as the best of modern fiction, have you ever read David Eddings, Terry Brooks, RA Salvatore, Bernard Cornwell, Karen Traviss, or any of the many others out there? Or do you only read books where there is a TV show/movie to follow along? I grant you, the guy is quite the wordsmith. He can paint a beautiful picture with words. But this is a STORY. If the plot never moves anywhere, then you have failed. Pretty much every 4 star and less (and even many of the 5 star, which bewilders me as to why they still gave it 5 stars) review on here goes through the myriad of things wrong with this book (and series), so I won't regurgitate them. I enjoyed the first 2 books. I thought the 3rd book was getting kind of stale, but friends persuaded me to keep with it. I made it through the 4th book on pure stubbornness and will power. The 5th book broke me. You should be proud as a mercenary book seller but hang your head in shame as an author. I only wish I could get back the $50 some odd dollars for the books (luckily I stuck with paperback!) and dozens of hours wasted reading this tripe.
I loved the first 3 books. This one was interesting in a way, but disappointing also. The introduction of the new characters, some from feast for crows, made me feel as if the author is just stretching the story, loose ends that hopefully will be tied up in book 6. I look forward to the new book, and hope that we won't have to wait so many years before we can continue reading it.  It appears as if Jon Snow has been killed. I hope not, he is an interesting character, like his father, and the other members of the Stark family.
George, I love you. What you created is magnificent. And it goes nowhere in the end. The magnitude of my enjoyment of the earlier books is matched only by my disappointment at your losing steam in Book Five. And nearly 300 separate characters - even in a five book series - is just too many for an ordinary human being to keep track of.
Book arrived pretty fast, but when I opened it up it appears as if the bottom last sentences of each page was cut off...will not return due to book only costing about $5, but very disappointed...
Can someone explain why Roy Dotrice does not review the characters from previous books, and name pronunciations!?? It's really annoying to listen to the audio books in sequence and have to adjust to a totally new accent of major characters.  Suddenly Danearys is speaking with a high pitched, Irish accent!  It's weird and I wonder if anyone else has noticed this?
I kept reading hoping against hope that this book would come to sum meaning, scores of characters yet no direction nor continuity. I feel cheated, and after waiting for years I believe this author has fallen asleep, and have given us nothing. No stars.
despite it's popularity, this series gets worse and worse with each succeeding book. the last volume is so disjointed and unsatisfying that it spoiled the first two which weren't bad.
A waste of time!! This is an effort and I'm not even half way through. I was warned and I should have listened and saved myself some time and money.
The story continues, and the wind blows, and maybe the wheel will weave a web that gets there in the next book.  I would not mind a long series, but only with each book being the caliber of the first three.  Nothing truly significant happened in this book.  I would recommend just skipping it, lets not let Martin pull a Jordan on us.
This series had promise at first but by this book it was a giant waste of time. Don't bother purchasing this series. I heard such good things about the HBO show but the book are pathetic
I received this as a gift. Oh boy, I don't know who this stuff is for. If you enjoy books where main characters go on to bash babies' heads against walls, slaughter toddlers left and right, throw grade-schoolers out of windows and have sex with middle-schoolers, then this stuff is for you. Of course, how could I omit, graphic depictions of rape of children and women every few pages.  I have three small children, I managed to read a book and a third of the series, I couldn't read any more because I started having nightmares. Still trying to figure out how to creatively dispose of this drivel. I would not donate this to a library for fear of someone else falling prey to this garbage.
Having read all the others, bought this to complete the collection. It's so dragging, I read maybe a page a day then put it down. Maybe I will finish it before the next one comes out, and hope that is better. Every penny (cent) of this purchase is wasted. Should have taken it from the library instead
All of these books of Martin's could have been written in a third of the amount of words by editing the many useless  and repetitive descriptions. This author loves to "hear himself talk" w out EVER telling a story.
I have just finished the fifth book of A Song of Fire and Ice. After having labored through many thousands of pages, it left a few impressions.  Most authors have, if they are lucky, one or two great books in them. I think that is the case with George R.R. Martin. It is clearly true with respect to A Game of Thrones and A Clash of Kings, and perhaps A Storm of Swords. Martin deserves kudos for creating a rich and compelling story populated by interesting characters.  At this point, however, it is pretty obvious that he is protecting a brand name rather than writing a story. His rotisserie style of story telling was once useful to build narrative tension as various arcs moved toward each other. Now, it simply (and badly) disguises the fact that any momentum that once existed is now almost entirely gone. Take the distinct passages for each character in A Dance of Dragons and put them together. The end result is a simple rehashing to nearly identical problems and characters. How many times can Tyrion be captured? How many ways can Jon Snow defy the traditions of the Nights Watch?  It is a well-established fact that Martin likes to kill off main characters. Many people have addressed his desire to prove that bad things happen to good people. That is all well and good, but I think that another agenda exists. I do not think that Martin has any idea what to do with the protagonists in his overcrowded universe. Abruptly killing them off is a good option not only for its shock value, but also so he may introduce a substitute (the Iron Suitor, really?) whom he may ponderously develop all over again.  Game of Thrones is a great and profitable franchise. The HBO series will likely continue for a few more good seasons. Right now, the book series is coasting on old momentum. What a shame.
I have wasted the past few weeks reading the 5 published books in this series.  George R R Martin is a great describer of things.  He describes things in amazing detail.  He describes people in amazing detail.  He describes places in amazing detail.  He describes people's feelings and actions in great detail.  What he is not, though, is a great story teller.  This series, as my heading suggests, is what you get when such an author starts writing a story without having thought it through to the end.  What you get in this book are more surreal, absurd, contrived and ultimately, futile plot twists.  Characters killed and resurrected at random.  Minor characters from past books that nobody is supposed to remember that suddenly become major characters.  Essentially, the author is hoping that writing more and more, creating more loose ends will help close some loops and bring the story to a conclusion.  Unfortunately, that is unlikely to happen.  At this point, the only hope for this series is a quick, lame and anti-climactic ending.  I am sure the author will disagree, so there will be 3, 4 or 5 more books in the series to drag it out into a slow, lame and anti-climactic ending.  The author started out with a chess board, and he started moving a few of the pieces.  You were hooked on to the story thinking that a winner was going to emerge through some breathtaking gameplay or at least, sleight of hand.  What has happened is that the chess board has started falling off the table.  All the pieces are moving uncontrollably and at random as they fall towards the ground.  The author may contrive to have the board land flat on the floor with one of the kings standing all alone on the board while all the other pieces scatter and break when they hit the ground.  I only wish the chessboard had fallen off a short table instead of falling off the edge of the grand canyon!
Im starting to have a feeling..... a feeling of this author trying to milk the crap out of the series.. I fell once with Mr. Jordan and that monstruosity he wrote....The Wheel of Time  It started the same way.. 2 or 3 books witch were very good and entertaining.. and after that it spiraled down out of control, for like what? 10? 15 years? and to top it off the guy passed away and didn't finish the series...  Now with Georgie.. he is doing the exact same thing.... books that were filled with good plots, battles, politics and scheming are going down the same route.... details.. and more details.. and even more details.. to the point the book is just page after page of endless description and no plot, nothing going on.. just clothing.. tea...scenery... etc etc, this is the Wheel of Time all over again.. Jordan made me fall for it and like an idiot I wasted my money on that beast.. I will not fall again for it with this series.  NO MAS GEORGE!  edit: The only thing I like is that I don't have to deal with that total eyesore of a book cover like I did with the Wheel of Time (if you know what im talking about)
Game of Thrones is one of the rare instances where the movie/TV show is MUCH better than the book.  The HBO series trims out all the bloated, boring, aimless overly detailed fat from book.  The show is awesome.  Skip the books - especially this 5th one.  Dance with Dragons is so painful and boring, it is just not worth it when you will be able to watch the show instead.
I am only writing this review based on the actual printing of the book. It's horrible. Pages missing words and off kilter. Uneven spacing of the words on the pages. More words towards the crack of the book than towards the outer edge.super super lame. Gonna see if I can return it and borrow a friends hard copy. Many of the pages are also creased, with white lines through the words. The actual content of the book is fine, of the little I have read.
This book sucked.  No conclusion, no endings only more beginnings.  After 4000 pages one feels there should be some finality
Not having read this book, I am unable to justify writing a review.  It is wrong to force readers to write a review before reading the book.
It seemed like the author was tired of writing the series and just quit.  All of the intricate detail in character development and plot that made the first 4 books so enjoyable was completely missing from the last volume.  Waited a long time for this volume and now I wish I'd saved my money.
The further along George R.R. Marin gets in this series, the further he seems to get from what drew us in in the first place. The series is becoming a confused and boring mess of hundreds of ancillary characters. I want to know about the main characters from the first book. I don't really care about all these other people. Also, at this pace it's going to take thirty or forty books for us to get the girl and the dragons on a boat and over to Westeros to wrap the thing up. Martin will end up dying LONG before that happens, and we'll all be left holding the bag. Then some enthusiastic half-wit will attempt to take up the colors and soldier on, and he will do an incredibly crappy job, as they always do.
The book goes no where. I waited so long to get the book and was disappointed. Not near the book as the 4 before.
This book should have been called A Dance With Nothing. Because "Nothing" is exactly what happens. The author flat-out admits in the forward that this book is nothing but clippings from the cutting floor of the last book. And man does it show. I can't actually give you spoilers because there aren't any. And most ironically? The dragons aren't even in the book, except for maybe four pages!  Here's a summary the action in book 5: 48 pages of random conversation that doesn't relate to anything. One sentence description of somebody getting killed. ^^ repeat about 20 times.  Seriously, there's a chapter called "Dude on a Horse."  The magic has really gone out of this series for me. I hope the next book is a million times better than this!
Overdid useless details, worse book of his series....narrative slow, seems he just lost it.  Sorry I bought this book! Crass, seems to repeat a lot  bodily functions.
I'd read the rest of the series and wanted to find out what happens next and anyone contemplating this book is likely in the same situation and willing to buy the book regardless of my review, especially now that it is being discounted heavily. But man does this book DRAG. It has been a 2-year gap since I read the book that comes before this one (remember that the last book parallels this book so we are going two books back to the prequel). The book dances between multiple character threads and locations, referencing plot developments that have faded in my memory. And it just goes on and on and on with angst-ridden wanderings and plots with little in the way of action. I'm writing this at about the 1/3 point in the book so maybe things will pick up. If you've read the rest of the series you're going to have to read this one but it isn't literature.  [Edit] I am editing this review after having just finished the book. The edit includes a downgrade from two stars to one and this additional material. This book is just horrible and I feel like I am being held hostage to whatever Martin wants to do because I'd invested my time in the previous volumes and the story lines. I wanted to find out what happens to characters with whom I've built relationships but still no joy and no resolutions. This book has no fewer than eight different plot lines going and each chapter jumps from one to another meaning that continuity within the book suffers. Further, many of the plot lines are left over from previous volumes and given the time gap between this one and the latest it was difficult for me to remember what was going on the last time we visited some of the characters. Further, the plot is dispersed so widely in both geography and characters that I am frankly having trouble keeping many of the minor players straight.  Martin has woven a world that I am sure he understands but if you are looking for something to read with an ending don't look to this series. Instead, this is more like a multi-year TV show where you have to just tune in week after week to see what happens. But instead of following a close cast of characters through ongoing adventures Martin has created his full employment program by just broadening his world. I'd have much rather he had created spin offs so I could at least have some resolution on part of the story.  I'll probably buy the next one, if it ever comes out. But I certainly won't pay full price for it. I'll wait again until it is deeply discounted for Kindle.  For what it is worth, this is the worst review I've ever left and am not someone who goes around looking for problems or complaining just to complain. But I resent having my investment in this story and characters hijacked into a vehicle to sell me this unsatisfying content.
I was lead to believe this was a different book when I already had this book with a different cover
The initial story line appeared to be sound and could possibly be interesting. But the author's treatment of the characters and twisted scenarios left me cold and disgusted. I never actually got to book five, having given up and abandoned the story on book two. There are good sword and sorcery tales out there but this is not one as far as I am concerned.
I've spent 5 months reading these books. Each book after the first becomes slow and tedious then bursts into fireworks. The big show in the last two books have not been worth it. We are introduced to too many minor characters and the characters we've come to know simply disappear, Sam for example. These books have become very unsatisfying. I don't think Martin has a clue as to how he's going to end this so he's endlessly dragging it out.
This book SUCKED! I am so disappointed.  I FEEL let down . I miss all the characters from your past novels. Shame on you I am done.
I thought that this was to be the book that tied everything together.  Seemed like there was acute brain lock instead.  There was a lot left dangling and all of the segments that seem to just run out of story.
I ordered the 5 book PAPERBACK set on October 12, 2012 and got the first 4 pretty quickly. I just got the 5th book and it is in MASS PAPERBACK which is 2.5 times the size of the 4 books I ordered over a YEAR AGO! I sent this one back and they reshipped the same damn book back, NOT the regular PAPERBACK LIKE THE 4 OTHERS ON MY SHELF!  Why can't I get what I originally ordered and why would you send me the same damn thing back that I just complained about?
Vulgar, sexist language throughout that wears thin. Excessive violence for shock value in lieu of good writing. Largely boring. Last Martin book I will read.
Saw it in the library and almost didn't check it out because the back cover has a positive quote by Stephen Donaldson, an overwrought hack. Sadly, I ignored that feeling.  The first 100 pages are simplistic, childish tripe. Nothing new, nothing interesting, very standard. Well, that and inconsistent. For instance, Lysaer shows some sympathy for his brother initially but then quickly changes to infantile hatred as soon as they're thrust through the Gate.  100 pages of nonsense and more than 700 to go? Not worth it.
Awful.  Corny writing. Cliched.  Sorry Ms. Wurtz,  but I won't be reading you again.
The game of Thrones was an interesting read for the first 500 pages the next 4500 pages were total repitition. Same sub plots repeated over and over and over. I would never recommend this book. I will never waste my time reading another George R.R. Martin book.
The last two books have been an absolute jumbled mess of pure drivel, total disappointment. These are 2 books I will not be re-reading. I may not even read the rest when and if they get written.
This book is comically bad.  Ms. Wurts - unfortunately - appears to rely more upon her thesaurus than her imagination.  Ever sentence is full of polysyllabic monstrosities.  Needless adjective heaped upon needless adjective; none of which add any caloric literary value.  Additionally negative points for long, difficult to read names, too many of which start with "A".  Whatever happened to the clean, tight, narrative we saw in the Empire Series (which was really top-notch)?  And don't get me started on the plot.  Characters shift time and place with stunning rapidity, and appear largely unscathed by the loss of family and homeland.  Hordes of monsters are wiped out in a single bizarre interlude.  While these themes are ostensibly what the book is about, there is no depth to the suffering.  It is utterly impossible to empathize with any of the characters (with the possible limited exception of one character bound by duty to follow a path he would not choose for himself).  The clichs, however, are probably the (unintentionally) funniest part of the book.  Two half brothers:  One light.  One dark....  No literally.  One of them is blond, with a sunny disposition and uses a magic sword that shines a lot.  The other is the sullen, dark haired "Master of Shadow" from a privateering nation who tries to recklessly kill himself throughout the book.  Oooo - I wonder which will have the heart of gold, and which will turn out to be evil?!?  The only thing that keeps me plowing ahead is a perverse desire to see how bad a book can really get.  Save yourselves the trouble.
The author just can't seem to finish. I liked the first three books. The last two just drag on and on.
There is absolutly no back story.  Are the other "worlds" really worlds or other parts of the same continent/planet?  Why do some writers seem to think they have to create complex names that are impossible to pronounce or remember?  Too many characters.  Too much change of heart for the half-brothers, back & forth.  Characters appear out of nowhere & accepted by main characters like they have known them forever.  Too many "kingdoms" and the relationship between them is never explained to my satisfaction.  I know this is volume 1 in a series and more will probaly be expained later on, but to get readers to continue, I would think you would want to include a littel more history to keep from confusing us.  It was like walking into a movie halfway through.  If this is an example of how this writer thinks, I will never read her again.  I'm glad I bought this at the library bookstore for $.50.  It was a waste of my time.
After reading (and loving) Master of Whitestorm, I was eager to give more of Janny Wurts' writing a try, but sadly, Curse of the Mistwraith left me very dissapointed. And bored.  It started out well enough, and for about the first 60 or so pages, I felt there was a plot here just straining to get out. Something truly special and interesting. Reading on, I began to find that the writing was becoming tedious (far too wordy) and the characters had all lost their appeal. I didn't care what happened to them, and the utter lack of any real gripping conflict soon turned the whole experience into an ordeal.  I would like to have given this book a chance through to the end, but what's the use when I don't care for the characters, the plot, nor the world and it's history? (which just seems too vague) This series is long, and I've wasted enough time on book one.
I had high hopes about this book, and sadly, those hopes were dispatched literally 100 pages into the book.  The exaggerated writing style didn't bother me as much as the plodding narrative.  In my view, everything seemed contrived. There's a story in here to tell, a damn fine one at that, but it just wasn't done in this book.  A prequel would have been helpful, or at least a few chapters as a historical backdrop.
I will not pay $12 for the kindle edition of volume 5 of the series. Are you kidding? I will borrow the hardback from a friend and deny you your grubby profit!
I love the series and can't wait to read the last two books.  This is my least favorite book in the series. This definitely could have been combined with crows. It is full of so much nothing and uninteresting conversation. The Danaerys character seems to be focus of this book and she is boring as ever. I really hope GRRM keeps her in  east with her dragons or kill her off. The Westeros story line and the north need to be focused on and complete.
I read about 75 books a year and have been doing this for the last 30 years.  I have only not finished 3 books in my life,  This is one of them.  It is slow, boring makes no sense.  It was suppose to be based on the black plague wipping out 95% of the European people and Aisian culture becoming dominant.  What I was able to get though did nothing to intrest me on the characters or the entire premise.  Do not waste your time.  It was nothing like a Turtledove novel.
I just can't get into Kim Stanley Robinson's writing style another waste.
I was immediately bored with this pretentious book.
Absolutely, the worst of the five books.  George must have run out of ideas by book five. Boring descriptive details is not aa substitute for a plot and story line.  Boo.
I am struggling to finish the fifth book in the series and have decided it is no longer worth my time.  I don't understand the need for the continuous debasement of women throughout the entire series.  It gets tedious and gross.  It adds nothing to the novel's understanding.  You made your point about 3 novels ago - enough!
Not at all interesting, but a good concept.  Gives an alternative history of the world where Europeans all died out around 1400.  It reads like a dull history book, which can be alright if your reading actual history.  It is a terrible bore when it is make believe history and not worth following.  There are about a dozen sections where each tell a story of a particular era, some are not too bad.  These chapters are linked by some type of reincarnation of re-occuring souls, but at least to me it was not apparent how specific characters tract from one section to the next, and if it were apparent I do not think the book would be any more interesting. A lot of pseudo religion
Transfering  the characters through the "Bardo" (Twilight Zone) does not really create a continuous plot.
This is only the second book I've returned out of hundreds I've downloaded from audible over the years.  I got through the first 9 chapters and gave up.  The narrator is perfectly fine but the story is excruciatingly slow and boring, then just when it couldn't seem to get worse dives into religious nonsense. I've enjoyed a couple of other books from the same author but this was so bad I won't be trying any others.
Absolute rubbish. There's no story line and the characters are all mixed mixed up. With a bunch of crazy religious junk on top. This is not a novel. Just crazy ramblings? I'm sorry I wasted time reading it.
I am not going to write a long review.  But I thought it was boring and not at all what I expected.  The premise was interesting, that is, Europe/Christinanity was wiped out by the black plague and the Moors returned to Europe.  And that the Chinese then discovered North America.  But boring.
Long and frustrating that there are so many story lines to follow and no real conclusion to any of them. The book is so rich in detail but sometimes that excessive detail detracts from furthering the story.  I still enjoy the read!
Slow. Too much mystical crap.
The writer forgets what he wrote last chapter!  Who is his proof reader?  If you like to read. Slow and chew on every word to see it in your minds eye, please do not start this!  The first book was great but this last one is killing me to get through!  And I think there is something like 500 charters to follow!
incredibly boring - premise sounded interesting - It was impossible to finish so boring.  to get enough words in for this review...incredibly boring.
This was painful to read, poorly written, rambling, and largely uninteresting. The main characters keep changing as they are reincarnated, so even character development is poor. It's a bogus world history of religious and race wars, injustice, etc, with characters you don't care about.  It was an interesting premise, very poorly written.  It's a shame that the editor didn't have the balls to tell the author try again. No way would this have ever been published if it had been his first book. Robinson has done some awesome writing, and I'm a fan, but this should never have been published.  This is NOT science fiction. It's crap.
Boring, slow, and uninteresting. Appallingly bad and dissapointing. The other one star reviews are accurate. Can the HBO writers save the show? They will need to avoid this book. "You know nothing GRRM."
I am two thirds of the way through my first endeavor into Mr. Stanley's writing and I honestly don't know if I will finish. I was very excited about the concept for this alternative history, but the approach taken here is painful and flaky. Bits of "poetry" that leave a great deal to be desired pop up throughout the book. The first few chapters end with the narrator suddenly becoming cognizant of his audience and telling us "we will see what happens in the next chapter", like a Pee Wee Herman story time. I may eventually trudge through this monolith until its end, but I don't see myself reading any more KSR. The pace is laborious, and the wordy descriptions of totally unnecessary fluff really kill the already fragile storyline.
Boring and silly
I threw this book in the trash the other day unfinished.  I never do that but this book just defeated me.  I loved Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars series and had high expectations for this book, even knowing going in that it was different in many ways.  The alternative history and reincarnation aspects were sort of intriguing at first but the many stories contained in the book (due to the periodic "reset" of reincarnation) are boring and hard to follow.  There is just too much text dedicated to mundane activities and no real plot to latch on to.  The book put me to sleep more times than I can count to the point I just had to give up.
Reading the summary of this book, it sounded really quite interesting.  European society had been killed off by plague and thus Islamic and Chinese societies were the dominant ones on Earth. The book was divided up amongst several stories detailing various time periods and the ways in which scientific discoveries - flight, gunpowder, trains, telescopes, etc were "discovered" in this alternate history.  But these stories just got boring and I found myself wanting to skip large sections of them in the hope that the book would get better, unfortunately it didn't.
This audio CD does not do justice at all to the story. Every man portrayed sounds like a pirate with a bad cold, and about 70 years old regardless of the age of the character.  If the voice is not an old phlegmy pirate it is the voice of a dumb cockney street urchin. Dotrice robs the female characters of all depth and meaning. I have listened to all the audio books of this series and all suffer, but this is by far the worst. A new reader for this series is badly needed. As far as the book itself, I confess I want to see this story to the end but this is way to dragged out and slow. The book plods along interspersed with important and or exciting events only rarely. Could be so much better. Perhaps I will take the HBO route instead.
I don't usually do book reviews, but this book irritated me so much I decided to add my one star rating to the mix in hopes of dissuading anyone else from wasting their money. One reviewer stated that the book suffered its own Black Death in the last two chapters. Indeed. I was completely engrossed until the story abruptly stopped and the rhetorical clap trap began when the characters found themselves reincarnated in Nsara. I suspect Nsara is really one of the lower levels of the Bardo, reserved for evil academics (and perhaps grad students) with really bad Karma. Hard to tell, but I for one definitely wanted out of there and I promise to be kind to everyone so I never find myself there again. I can't bring myself to even finish the book.
Okay.  I have read many of the "most helpful" reviews, just to see how other people responded to this book and I think that they pretty much cover the bases.  To put it simply, this book was incredibly boring.  I got to the point where I was entirely zoned out and entire pages would go by where I would have no idea what had happened.  I'd skim back over them to see if I missed anything, but I never did because in 99.9% of the book, nothing notable happened.  People mention that he uses annoying phrases over and over.  I was annoyed at first too...but then, I just started skimming.  I was pretty much surprised I had finished, because there was very little build up to the conclusion of the book and no feeling of "oh no, it can't end now! No! No! No!" which I experienced with the first three.  I also think that his writing style is so lazy.  Fluffy sentences that really tell you very little and stupid cliffhangers seem to have replaced thought, plot development, and effort on the part of the author.  I enjoyed the first three books.  I started to get a glazed, out of focus feeling reading the fourth, but this book was the worst.  I had hoped for a return of interest to the story but found instead a continuation of monotony from the last installment.  Characters who were interesting, self sufficient, "realistic" or at least rounded to some degree become stupid, dull, and repetitive.  I feel like you can read 1/4 chapters for each character and pretty much get their entire story and suffer through a lot less whining (Tyrion, Dany) and tedium (Jon, Dany, a million side characters we hope never to see again).  I don't recommend that you buy this book.  I recommend, if you read it, that you borrow it from a friend or a library.  If you don't want to commit hours of your life (which you will never get back, by the way) to reading this snoozer, read a plot summary and you will get all of the main points of interest and can look those parts up in the book if they interest you.  And really, if you think this book is worth five stars isn't it worth a review that shows that you actually READ this book? I am sorry if my review was boring and repetitive.  Just think of it as a warm up for A Dance with Dragons.
It really piss me that an author starts a saga with a wonderful, interesting, and entertaining book and ends up not knowing what to do with his story. This book has no sense, comes and goes and I never understood what was the main theme. It really sucks, and I really disappointed with G.R. Martin.
I don't think the world without christian europe would be so much better that it turned out to be in the book. The islamic, Buddhist and hinduist philosophy is very anti individualistic. It does not encourage freedom of thought, full emancipation of women, and other concepts that revolutionnized humanity because of the preeminence of christian europe.
I had high hopes for this book.  I am an avid reader, especially alternate history, like Turtledove or Harrison, or "Disaster at D-Day" or "Fox on the Rhine."  This book stands by itself as a book, if it was the only alternate history book I had ever read, I would never attempt to read another.  The author, and I use that term loosely, spouts religious beliefs nearly every page.  This book does not belong in Fiction or Science Fiction genre's, but in RELIGIOUS FICTION under Buddhist or Hindi.  At least then I would have been prepared for the characters continually going to hell and coming back.  In conclusion, the author basically outlines a world where Christianity has been eliminated, or enslaved, and Islam and China rule the world.  He paints a picture that I believe make it obvious that he would have prefered a world where Christianity didn't "taint" ethics with such drivel as human rights and equality and hope.  But that is neither here nor there.  This is a bad book, people, be prepared for that if you attempt to read it.
It's unusual for me not to finish a book, but I'm having a difficult time plodding through this one.  It lacks almost everything.  It doesn't have continuity of plot, except at a ruinous level of abstraction -- as if a story set in the Roman Empire had the plot "Rome rose and then fell."  It doesn't have compelling characters; instead, there are a bunch of cardboard cutouts who go through their paces and, when there is any risk of one becoming interesting, KSR kills everyone off and we go on to the next incarnation.  I'm a fast reader, but I've been at this book for almost two weeks, because I keep wandering off to read toothpaste tubes, cereal boxes, almost anything other than this.  If I weren't downright stubborn I wouldn't be bothering to finish.
The Years of Rice and Salt is a sleeping pill in book format.  The book is suppose to be an alternate history style book.  But alternate history is used as the thinnest veneer for the author to write about religion and metaphysics (he particularlly loves talking about reincarnation).  Since the characters keep getting reincarnated they effectively become immortals, but since they never remeber what happened in previous lives they effectively become new characters.  None of the characters, no matter how you read it, are developed enough to care about them.  Overall a poorly written book, its only good use is if you are having trouble sleeping at night.
Kim Stanley may be best noted for his outstanding Mars series however The Years of Rice & Salt fall far short of the mark.  Stanley cannot seem to focus on any kind of meaningful character development throughout the book and when he finally does develop a character that person is tragically killed off. The book's focus seems to jump around from unrelated chapter to unrelated chapter worse than an ADD child during a Math class.  Stanley may well have imagined himself to be interjecting various witticisms at the end of each chapter designed for comic relief however I found it to be tedious and just plain annoying. Don't waste your time with this book if you are looking for entertainment.
This book just did not deliver the goods. Hyped as an alternate history it is really a series of reincarnation stories about three characters. Any "history" is just an accident IMO. It is long, it is often boring, and it is to be avoided. I wish I had.
While I greatly enjoy the TV series, the books tend to be long, boring, and incoherent. For instance , characters will appear and then disappear, or be apparently forgotten for hundreds of pages. It is a tough slog through Vol 5 where the writing seems to focus on describing every morsel that any of the characters eat, while not moving the plot forward hardly at all. It is not even clear at the end of the book which characters are alive and which are dead. The dragons have virtually no part at all. The great threat from North of the Wall, the undead, also are talked about, but never show up. Catelyn was shown to have survived in the TV show but makes no appearance in the 5th book. Did she die or what? All in all , my advice is to skip this huge waste of time and read something else.
To much about the animals and not as much about the family.
I also found this book to be rather a bore. I like some more history to my alternate history - this was a series of character sketches revolving around Eastern religious themes with just a little history in the background. You have to read between the lines to determine what the "historical" message is in a section. The Widow Kang section was particularly boring - and the book draws its title from this section. After 400 pages it finally got up a little steam in the history department. By the time I finished this book I had a real love-hate relationship with it - A great idea, but not a good book.  I could put this book down. It was only determination to finish what I had begun that got me to the end.
The book is very small in size.  Hardly ever could be read . printing is so small. Very disappointed.
Very poor,
What a grandiose waste of time! I have not spent time so far to write book review as I was always finding more eloquent readers having their point across with more style, precision and analysis than I believed I could. Sadly this book has left so much bad taste in my mouth to ignore it. First 2 books were excellent, intense with plot holding reader to every page, 3rd book was good as well but with signs of uncontrollably widening the plot, instead of streamlining it and leading into grand closing. Fourth book was an opening to a complete disaster with obvious signs of writer's intent to dilute and milk this story as long as possible, as much as possible and he absolutely proved one of his book's main themes: there is no honor or limits what one can do when "making coin" is the goal. I have bought 5th book with very low expectation, only because I have invested time into reading previous 4 books I wanted to give the story and Martin yet another chance. Heaving said that the author managed to exceed my already low expectations. There are several reasons I am doing this today:  1) There are some that dared to compare Martin with Tolkien, in my view that is a sacrilege. Tolkien was writing for the love of story and Martin is writing it for the love of money in very dishonest way to his readers. So all of you that expect masterpiece of storytelling without greed to earn more money by fluffing the story, don't waste time here. Martin and his story have lost their way and are on a road of no return.  I will not return to them knowing that there is no honor in Martin's writing or his editor's intents other than milking this story for as long as possible and for as much money as possible.  2) As a proof how big money matters, look at a shameful review from Los Angeles Times, praising this book as a masterpiece.  3) You will find 5 star reviews on this site as well and overall almost 3 stars rating for this kind of garbage story telling (book 5). God bless their ignorance or poor judgment, I want to make sure that one more voice of disappointed reader is recorded and not lost in this sea of really bad taste.  So: 1) Martin was widening story to grandiose proportions where it is impossible to follow main characters (who ever was a main character in a book or two before has disappeared from horizon or it became marginal in the new book and newly introduced or previously marginal characters are recycled to lead the new "story")` Span of time between books (unless Martin was thinking that before every book his readers need to reread his previous books) makes continuity even more difficult.  2) Story had slowed down to a crawl like every character is bogged down into mud up to a waist deep with no way or hope to get out of it at any time soon.  3) Story is stuffed, stuffed and again stuffed with worthless fluff, reflections to irrelevant "details" that took pages upon pages, dead end branched chapters from the main story easily forgotten with no value for the overall story and names, names, names of absolutely meaningless characters and their family trees with again pages spent on something that never added any value to the main story.  Martin's Book 5 is a pool of brackish water, a pool of mud you would never want to return to.
I did not enjoy this book at all.... in fact it is one of very few I did not finish.
I loved this book as a child so I purchased it for my son. However, he can not read it since the print is tiny. It must be a 5font or close to that. I would get a headache trying to read it and he looked scared that I was going to make him read this book with the tiny print. The stories are fantastic but I would not purchase this printing of the book again.
Martin has taken a great story and is ruining the series for money. He refuses to bring any story to a conclusion and has forced it to become a trite soap opera.  I won't be purchasing the next book.  George W. Corrales, NM
By this book I'm skimming most of it because it's more description description description - for a tv series to make sure the set and costumes look perfect??? Good grief.  There may be closure with some of the stories somewhere but I give up and I'm very sorry I paid for all five books - too bad - book one was great but this has become silly and silly me for not realizing it by book three.
I generally love these types of fantasy stories.  The first three books definitely whetted my appetite for more.  But starting with the 4 book, things began ramble and get dull. Touted as the last book in the series, I expected the story to be wrapped up.  This book left more hanging stories than any other first book of a series that I have ever read. When I finished, I was actually happy for those who did not survive in the first four books, because at least their stories were complete.
Just completed reading the entire five book series in a period of four weeks. Yes I am a extremely fast reader. Did not have any preconceptions going into the series, beyond what I have seen on HBO. The title says it all. Given the spoilers in the reviews given by others, you can simply wait for the next book without feeling you are missing anything. If no other books come out, don't worry, you still aren't missing a thing as "nothing" was resolved and no main characters "evolved" in this book.  If I met Mr Martin in real life, I'd slap him across the face and yell "words are winds, you know nothing, and I always repay my debts." That would be more enjoyable than this book.
The more I made my way through this book, the more disheartened I felt.  While GRRM's world has always gritty, this book tips over into glorifying ugliness.  Seemingly every new character has "broken teeth" and/or "yellow skin" and/or boils. Horrific things happen to Brienne that made me want to cry. Other main characters have lost their way and no longer act like the people we knew in previous books.  The real world is made up of both good and bad.  Since this is a 12-book series, I am sure that eventually our characters will get redemption arcs.  But at this point, I don't think I'll be sticking around enough to read it.
I have no complaints about the contents of the book, I love the series, I love the author. My complaint lies with the copy, the book I received in the mail is missing 30 pages of the book (right in a particularly interesting part), instead it repeated 30 pages of material I had already read. Hopefully this is just a fluke and isn't consistent with all copies, but be warned.
I am so pissed off about this book.  I was lucky enough to have all five books to read at once, since I came late to the series. The first books were riveting, and it was addictive...I kept hoping for SOME sort of plot line to develop in the last two, at least.  It just keeps getting more convoluted.  I like a novel, or a series, to have an end.  We know life just keeps going on, but a book should have an end, a conclusion. Another reviewer said it better:  a bunch of characters in search of a plot.  And the characters weren't all that great either. From a strong compelling start, they have all degenerated into fodder for the author to carry on the series.  It's not a story anymore, it's material for the scriptwriters.  I must add that I never read the books until I saw snippets of the HBO series (although in hindsight I can't remember matching any scenes I saw to the book, but again it was just snippets - free HBO over some holiday weelend).  The first two or three books were amazing storylines and kept me reading, to the point I was on my kindle app on the phone, my computer at work, and my kindle.  SOO disappointed that there was no conclusion, only more smoke and fog and random hard to believe characters.
I disapointed with version of Masterpiece Theather. It is not funny movie. It looks more like a bad soup opera. The movei should be about a boy and his family, however movie is about every charachter's frustrations. The charm of the Darrell's book is completely gone and all scenes filled with shirt  vein, insulting dialoges between characters. If you want to see a good version of Darrell's book get a priviouse movie produced in 1989 on VHS.
OK,  well i have been MADE to read this book as a part of my english course. I started off and thought maybe its not that bad....but it is. Its awful. Dont even bother with it, its a waste of important time. So there in your face Gerald Durrell. Cheers
A Dance with Dragons has all the white knuckle, page turning, edge of your seat action one can only find in a geometry textbook. The fifth installment to the Fire and Ice series follows the story structure of it's predecessor: Create new characters nobody cares about and follow original characters as they wander aimlessly. It is said some people like the sound of their own voice. George R. R. Martin must love the sound of his pen. This book crosses the 1100 page mark with the reader asking if their is a point around page 400, realizing their isn't around page 800, and desperately praying for some form of joy while finishing this white whale of a book, simply because of the time they already invested in it. Speaking of which, I may contact my lawyer and see if I can sue the author for time lost. What a shame, considering how excellent the first two books in this series were, to see how it digressed into such useless piddle. The books "picks up" where the third one left off avoiding any sort of development among characters you care about. But don't worry, every time anyone enters a room with more than one person the author gives their name, house insignia, and lineage only to never mention them again. I truly feel this book could have been reduced by 500 pages if he would have used phrases such as, "he had 10 guards with him". Instead of describing the background of every person in all of Westeros holding a sword. I'm 100% convinced that if this book contained only the readable, interesting content that I was looking for, it would be reduced to 2 or 3 pages in length. I will not read the sixth book and if any of my children do they will be immediately written out of my will.
It seems (judging from his own website) martin has put ASOIAF for years on a backburner and has been milking (to put it mildly) his fame for years with plenty of unrelated side projects or pure merchandising .  Too bad as the series started out very good, lets hope he finds a bit of his elan back in the conclusion of the series.  The book itself is not as well written, overly long, has barely any progress on the main story And is now weirdly split up over volumes and in POV's .
The first chapter of A Game of Thrones involved The Other's attacking and killing a group of men from the Night's Watch. After reading that introductory chapter is there anyone who would have wagered that five books later The Others would have barely appeared again and done very little when they did?  This is an example of the issues with Martin's story over the last two books. New stories are being added to the narrative and the story from the first few books is is moving at a glacial pace. A story that started with 7 or 8 main characters has expanded to over 25 and the series is suffering as a result.  There are long stretches in this book where nothing happens. It's  adreadfully slow read and does not match the excitement and thrills of the first three books in the series.
I think the series has taken a sharp turn and is starting to take a dive - the same way Robert Jordan's Wheel of time series did.... It has been a painful read that already started at book 4. The question is - do I want to continue reading till the end?.... I doubt it! (I did continue with Feist though and I am grateful for his last books were back to his best!). These guys just can't replicate what Brooks and Eddings and to a lesser extent Feist achieved.
I bought this book after reading Man and Boy which I could hardly put it down and finished in 2-3 days.  On the contrary, One for my Baby has been a real disappointment.  It's been two weeks and I'm finally into the last few pages!  The story line is loose and vague.  I cannot feel and understand how strong was the relationship between Alfie and Rose.  Was it explained how Alfie was behaving the way he did or did I miss it all together.  It was not so much as curiosity or interest that I continued reading the book.  It's more like wanting to finish what I started.  A real disappointment!
Good story, very deep, great characters.  However, I'm done waiting for the next book.  It's been years and while the author mucks around determining who will pay him for his next tv installment, loyal readers are moving on to other authors. I was breathless after book 5 but I've had years to catch my breath and now I just don't care anymore.  It's unlikely I'll be back.  I've forgotten half of what I've read and I'd have to start over again with book 1.  Waiting for the winds of winter has left me cold.  I'm done.
It has all been said already really.....first 3 books marvelous, 2nd 2 utter tripe!  So many things I don't understand : what the heck is Arya doing in the house of black and white and why is she becoming a face changer and what is that going to mean in the future?  Bran's story is just a mystery to me....roots and people growing in roots?  Stannis has been marching for decades it would seem - I thought Winterfell was pretty close to the wall, seems I was wrong.  Victarion has been sailing forever and he still hasn't reached Meereen - Tyrion, please someone tell him where whores go, left after Victarion and got to Meereen first!  Long enough to be sold into slavery and abandon his slavers and become a sell sword and Victarion, the great sailor, is messing about smashing up ships and burning people!  And killing off Jon Snow??  Unless of course the Melisande brings him back to life......and he joins the other zombies; there are so many of them now.....  I'm glad that Varys is back because without him the whole of King's Landing was dull and duller!  Perhaps we can get back to plotting and scheming.  Tyrion was a great character, please let him meet Dany and help her get back to Westeros and perhaps she can tell him where whores go.  Also Dany get your strength back and kill the bloody Harpy please, when did you become so weak?  George, I'm going to stick with you for another book but it needs to actually do something, something has to happen, plots must make a return.....if they don't I'm done!!
In this book, Martin introduces several more variously important characters, has several of the characters we know turn into people we don't recognize, most notably Tyrion. He produces plot complication after plot complication. Every thread ends with a cliff-hanger. It is as if Martin wants this series to outlive him, not figuratively as having its reputation live on but literally. He wants to die leaving his readers wanting more. Fine with me but I'm done with it.
Book 5 was awful. The 1st 3 books of the series were so good! Book 4 was ok. I could't believe I was reading book 5 and then there was the epilogue! I don't feel there was any end to the story. My only hope is that there is another book to finish the story and tie things together.
I felt like Mr Martin was just filling the pages with words to complete another book without regard to content. This book contains very little action. The book is a very boring read and found myself skipping over half the book. Save your time and money Don"t buy it I wish I did.
Martin is lucky to have the HBO series. I was turned off by reviews I read and should have never purchased this book, but I wanted to find out about some of the characters' fates.  The series kept me involved enough that I finally broke down and bought the book.  I had to skim it after the first 10 chapters just to finish it.  Much more than the money I wish I had back the time I spent.
"This was a bitch" the author let us know at the end of  part 5 of A song of Ice and Fire. And indeed it was a bitch, not only to write but to read as well.. The book tells 5,6,7 stories at the same time, only losely connected and all extremely slow moving. It is not uncommon for multi-part Fantasy epics to lose momentum, but this one comes to a nearly complete standstill. Lengthy descptions of landscapes, meals and the dilemma's facing the protagonist fill page after page. At the end  all parts have moved a couple af inches but remain completely open ended. Highly irritating. The problem is that having invested in this lengthy interlude you want to know how it ends but it does not look as if there is any end in sight. Very disappointing.
I was disappointed with audio book 4 of this series but this volume was worse still.  It is obvious that the author has run out of ideas or direction for the characters and is merely intent on dragging as many books out of his patrons as possible.  The characters go from one disaster to the next. Any direction they had is lost in the next disaster. When characters or story lines end it is sudden and anti-climatic. Important changes in the story line deaths, escape from death, happen between chapters and with little explanation. The author is able to repeatedly create cliff hangers but doesn't seem to be able to move on from them. Very dissatisfying.  The narrator is amateurish. He uses "voices" that don't match the characters. In particular the beautiful young women sound like old hags. He often can't separate the voices between two characters having a conversation.  I was very taken by the first 3 books in this series or I would have stopped listening to this early on in the chapters. I kept thinking it HAD to get better. It didn't. It was boring, repetitive and wandering. Considering the cost, this book is is very poor quality both in the story and the narration. I won't be listening to the next book in the series.
very tedious to read.
I'm a huge fan of the first three books so this is difficult for me to have to say but this is an expansive, vapid, ponderous, tome. It's actually one of the most boring books I've ever read. I stayed with it expecting something to happen but was disappointed chapter after chapter. Martin took well develpped , interesting characters and turned them into parodies of their former selves. A midget who now can only speak in one liners and a dragon princess who's a love sick little girl chasing a swashbuckeler. And why is everything a mummer's farce? You'd think that a writer of Martin's caliber could think up some new turns of phrase. I seriously doubt I'll bother with the next book. Better just to reread the first three and imagine what the series could have been if Martin was still at the top of his game.
Why does the Kindle edition cost more than TWICE as much as the paperback and almost the same as the hardcover? Greedy!
The book is quite interesting. Nevertheless you must be aware that the illustrations (an impressive list) are not included on the kindle edition. Unfortunately I was only informed about that after complaining.
I think he is milking his fame . One would think he was being played by the word.listing the names of all the people in a room,,please.he keeps adding characters rather than developing the ones he has. This  ending was scattered and it felt as though he simply gave up trying to bring it all together. I almost didn't bother to buy this one. I should have followed my instincts. It a shame.the first book was truly well done,but each successive book became less and less satisfying.his description of things,people and places are wonderful.
After waiting months for this last volume I was completely disappointed.  Suddenly a multitude of new characters and no conclusion as to where the characters from the first 4 volumes are.  Everything left hanging.  Waste of time and money
The first 4 books, all well written, came to no conclusions, except for the characters that were killed off. -- This book isn't as well written - revealed very little story and less conclusions to the story began.  The whole thing feels like a ploy to make more money, without offering any reader satisfaction. - I have to confess that having read over two thousand of Martins pages, and being a real GoT fan (computer games,TV series, etc.)it was all a gigantic disappointment - but at least I won't be looking forward future books of his, I was a sucker, but I'm done.
I have to agree with the three other writers above me about this series so far. Martin has closing issues. I won't read any more in this series unless he can weave a coherent integrated plot that ties the characters together. Very disappointed.
This the last George R. R. Martin book I will waste my money and time on.  I absolutely loved the first four books of this series.  At the end of the 4th book Mr. Martin said that originally all the material was to be included in the 4th book, but since there was so much it had been divided into 2 books.  Ok.  But if that was truly the case, why did it take so long for the subsequent book to be released?  Even so, I waited until finally Dance With Dragons was released.  What a tremendous disappointment!  Absolutely NOTHING was resolved!  So I'm done.  Done with this series and with George R. R. Martin.  You've gotten the last of my time and money that I'm willing to waste on this silliness.
This was a huge disappointment--it appears as gobbledegook on my iPad! It cannot be read! And I have no idea how to 'report' it or ask for a refund.
The author has a very interesting writing style.  But, the story was disgusting.
I really did not enjoy this book! Horrible horrible horrible!
The story goes on and on and there is no resolution. Too many characters and too many pages wasted. What started as a promising story has been dragged out and ruined.
This book is too rambling and disjointed.  The author jumps from one subject to another without enough connecting material in between.  We go from Hawaii to the Alps to plate tectonics with very little rhyme or reason.  In addition the author injects his life story and that of his friends too much into the narrative.  I for one am interested in geology not Richard Fortey.  In addition his explanation of previous and current geological theories is very sketchy and hence difficult to understand. Also this book lacks diagrams to illustrate the various geological processes.  What this book needed was lucid text tied to good diagrams - but if he had done that it would be a different and much better book.  If you are looking for a book that explains geology well then I recommend you go elsewhere (for example "Rough-Hewn Land" by Keith Meldahl is excellent).
Nasty. I only made it through a couple of chapters. Ick.
I will begin by saying that the one word NO ONE would use to describe me is prude.  I'm not sure what is going on with Martin and his writing but this was a long and tedious piece of work.  I get the impression that when he runs in to a dead end with and idea, he resorts to sex acts, genitalia, animal cruelty and torture.  There was too much of all of this in Dance with Dragons and none of it helped the story in any way.  The only part of the book I even remotely enjoyed was the continuation of Aria's story line.  I also get the impression that Martin has no idea where he's going so he just writes whatever sick and depraved thing he can come up with to fill pages and to get his editor and publisher off his back.  I can say that I am no longer interested in this story.  A Song of Fire and Ice started off as a fantasy masterpiece but has ended up nothing more than blood and torture porn.  If I had one piece of constructive advice for Mr. Martin, I'd suggest he'd get a really good therapist to exercise whatever demons are torturing his depraved soul.
This book lacks focus. It's like a conversation at a bus stop or a bar: rambling and not necessarily accurate. For example, it confuses Virginia City, NV with Carson City, NV. It has photos of the author in front of road signs umpity years ago, a peculiarly uninformative use of space. It has a romantically lit illustration of Madame Curie looking at a test tube, apparently because Madame Curie used pitchblende from Jachymov, an area introduced as part of a meaningless digression on the dollar.
A good number of anecdotes and photographs are unrelated entirely to the object of the book. For example, a color plate of Marie Curie looking at a test tube - connection please?  Who needs organization when there's no point? Even "facts" are wrong in some cases. For example, the author confuses Virginia City, NV with Carson City, NV.
After reading and liking one of McDermid's non-series books I decided to begin this series. I stopped reading almost immediately due to the grisly violence, but what prompted me to literally throw this paperback in the trash was the horrible torturing of an animal. I'm an avid reader and love well-written mysteries, police procedurals, and many other genres. Ordinarily I donate my books after reading or pass along to friends, and throwing a a book away is foreign to me. Why someone who can write as well as Mcdermid would resort to this horrible gratuitous violence I have no idea.
If you want to know how good this book is, how about this quotation (p. 278)  "Carson City used to be the state capital [of Nevada]. Now it is an endearingly ramshackle collection of wooden houses scattered over the hillside."  According to the Carson City website, its population today is 55,000 and growing, and it is still the state capital. "Ramshackle" is not a good description of the governor's mansion, nor of many other houses in Carson City.  Unfortunately this example is only one of many indications that this book desperately needed an editor and a spell checker. The author rambles this way and that, he repeats himself, he digresses frequently to no purpose, his illustrations are sometimes germane to the text, often not, and hardly ever referred to. As an example of irrelevant photos, as one illustration of the Great Basin we have a photo of the author (p. 286) standing by a tourist marker when he was about twenty. As another example, in the color plates following p. 274 is a romantic photo of Marie Curie in her lab gazing in soft backlight at a test tube. Yep, it's true.  There is no focus, no coherence, and often no point.
This book is sick, sick, sick. It goes from mistreating people to abusing animals.
I rarely start a book without finishing it but this one I just could not get into.  Maybe it would have gotten better but I quit after about 20% of it.
This book only had one significant moment, after which the whole purposefully gory crime was a piece of cake! The so called " profiling" of the culprit had no significance for the plot whatsoever, and the characters served only the meagre task of filling space and creating more trivial content.
I had so much hope for this series, but martin did not.  Now i am happy to imagine the others blowing the horn, bringing the wall down and invading and killing all of those characters i stopped caring about in the last two books.  I hope they all die. I mean they have to eventually, right martin? At least their last meal will be depicted in unbearable detail, i mean that's why i am reading these books!
Read first three books. Didn't read more because I didn't sense that the many hanging threads would be resolved. Also, I don't appreciate an author's resorting to magic as a basic element of a story.
I really wouldn't bother with this book, just wait for the HBO series to catch up.  The story goes no where and actually loops back to a Feast of Crows.  A good story should flow like swimming across a river, and all this book did was tread stagnant water.  This book should have been shortened and simply added to a Feast of Crows.  I am not sure I will continue with the series if this is the poor quality of writing we can expect.  If Mr. Martin is suffering from writers block then maybe he should turn the book over to a writer that won't "phone" in a story.
This series will never end. The first book was was a good read but I think a monkey wrote the last couple. You don't even need to read every chapter - he'll repeat it all in some other chapter anyway.
I am not a squeamish reader. Having said that, I put this book down two-thirds of the way through, sickened by the author's apparent fascination with torture and its various medieval devices. The descriptions of torture machines and how they work on the human body are quite graphic, almost as if the author was truly enjoying herself while writing the descriptions. Yuck.  The plot works quite well, but unless you're willing to read this gross stuff that will surely stay with you afterwards, move on to something better.
The paperback copy I received from Amazon has printing so tiny I have to practically use a magnifying glass to read it
No spoilers included, but this book has a major gimmick in it that's popular now and thus totally overused. The characters are all neurotic. The mystery is not compelling. I liked the other McDermids I read a lot better. I think the author was only partially attentive, or was distracted by something horrible and boring, while writing this tedious slab of overwrought verbiage.
Although I loved the first 3 books and tolerated the 4th one, this book was actually agonizing to read.  As many others have stated, there is virtually no plot development. On the flip side you will get to know way more than you ever wanted to about numerous minor and major characters. Don't get too attached though...Martin's favorite way of dealing with complex characters seems to be killing them off (or creating an incredibly unrealistic back story as in the case of Cersei). I find the comparison between Martin and Tolken laughable at this point. While Tolken's stories seem to be written with the end in mind and a general "good triumphs over evil," Martin seems to ramble on and on in a confused and somewhat sadistic state. Dude, check your ego and use your editors!
I can not possibly say anything new regarding the meandering and sell-out content of this book - MOST disappointing.  In fact, couldn't force myself to finsih it.  And I will read anything (or as it turnd out, just about anything).
Oh, you don't know who Robert Jordan is? He's the author who started off a promising fantasy series, but kept milking his fans with endless boring sequels until he literally died without finishing the story. He wrote the Wheel of Time fantasy series, which got off to a great start. But then something curious happened. After the 3rd or 4th books, the series kept getting longer (3 books, 6 books, 9 books, ultimately 14! books). And even more curious, nothing ever happened in the subsequent books other than characters getting moved around to different places on the map.  Sound familiar? Well, it seems GRRM has suffered the same malady. Success has given him a sweet taste of social and financial high life and the quality of his books are now second priorities. Feast for Cross and Dance with Dragons are boring and unimportant to story. Unnecessary. This from once a die hard fan.  For those interested in the book series, I would suggest just reading up to Storms of Swords, and waiting for the next book that actually advances the story, whichever one that turns out to be. In hindsight, I sure wish I had not wasted so much time going through some 3000 pages in the last two books that did nothing for the story.
Last night I finished this volume completely and utterly disappointed. With all the hype of the HBO series (which incidentally hobbles along as slow as this narrative), I went through all these books, hoping for something as engaging as LOTR, which I re-read every 4 or 5 years. All the elements were there, and the first three books did a great job of leading up to something great. However, all these last two books do is continue to introduce more and more characters (do I really care who they are - NO.  I'm interested in the Starks, the Lannisters, the Tygarians, and the Baratheons.) GRRM can't seem to find anything interesting for his main characters to do, so he continues to shock us by killing characters with which we've become engaged. Hitchcock did that in Psycho, to great effect, and GRRM does it in the first book.  But then, he does it over and over, until by the end of this, I've learned to not enjoy any character too much because they could be gone soon. And how about some satisfaction for fans to see a hero have a little closure and actually enjoy a moment or two of justice.  No.  We get very little of that.  Only GRRM sitting around with his enormous chess set making all his characters more and more miserable, while the wheels of injustice keep grinding. This does remind me a lot of LOST, where the creators and writers had no idea where they were going.  I get the same sinking feeling here.
I held off on reading this when it was first released, because I wanted to wait until the series was finished. Now, a few years later, I picked it up so I could stop dodging spoilers. Unfortunately, there was basically nothing to spoil: very little happens, and most of what does is either pointless or horrible. I can only hope the back half of the series will pick back up again, but if it continues this way, I'm going to mourn the series I used to love.
Worst book I ever finished, a slow-motion train wreck.  A year and an editor might have salvaged the project, but as is, it's a mess.
At the pace he is going he will be dead before winds of whatever comes out.  Shame, it is a decent story even if he does keep killing off major characters.  I am trusting in hbo writers to bring the story home because obviously this guy can't
I can't say it any better than some of the other reviewers already have said it. The author has lost his way, developed too many characters that we don't care about, and spent too many words saying nothing.  I wish I had not spent the money and much more importantly the time on this book. This author is too busy writing cookbooks and blogging about football, he should turn the franchise over to someone else so they can at least finish the stories. We read books to escape not to be tortured.  Also - the american tolkein? Really? The way these last 2 books have been, they really are just rated M or NC17 soap operas.  SPOILER ALERT: Cliffhangers that simply do not get resolved (e.g. Brienne, how did she get out of being hung? - thought it would be resolved in this book? WRONG).  Seige by Stannis, and then it's over with NO DETAILS. Wow. Big twist with the onion knight. He's dead, he's not dead - in the end who cares nothing happens. Just a huge waste of time.
I would review this book if I could get my hands on a paperback edition.  I am waiting for it to come out in paperback so I can read the book.  The hardback is too heavy for me to carry around with me.  It's been 2 years, what's the hold up?
Electronic version is too confusing. Unreadable. It may not be the same in the original text.
Bluebook drools.
Its a scam
Although the product itself seemed fine at first glance,  upon opening it I found that some of the pages were stuck together at the top and an entire section (pages 45-60) have the entire bottom section cut off, as though someone took scissors to it. This is absolutely unacceptable for a product I could have bought new for just $10 more. Would not recommend buying from this seller.
Book I got was not the one pictured
Not a closure in any of the story lines. These are hours invested that I'll never get back. I feel like I've been flim-flammed.
I want a refund
Hated this book, horrible explanations. Barely illustrates, they give you one sentence on how to do it and then you're on your own and leaves it up to your imagination to figure out the rest. For such stringent rules on cutting legal sources you'd think they'd have a better book for being more illustrative/explanatory for people  who've never cited a legal source before. This book is a required reading for class but if you don't need out don't get it.
I prefer to read in original language rather than reading in such kind of bad translation. I suppose by translating the rubaiyat in any language does not help any reader to read as smoothly as in original language
disappointment, wouldn't purchase again. Just a little pamphlet with some poetry that I found difficult to grasp.
I ordered the translation pictured on Amazon, a translation by Ahmad Saidi, a translation true to the original, but in modern language. The translation I received was by Edward FitzGerald, a translation I specifically did NOT want.
Zero star....poor translation....I mean really very poor....
I hate these books as much as I love them.  They go on and on and say nothing  An interesting, well loved character to me equals great reading, a character I don't like means pushing my way through many tedious pages of boredom.  Martin is an OK writer but if he was a good writer the books could be half as long and say much more.  I don't understand why people think these books are great as they are simply tedious and at times very boring.  Don't waste your time trying to read this sluggish mess of words
Have not read it yet. But given me time
This edition is awful for comparison to an other. Poem numbers do not match up with their counterparts in other versions, as would be expected.
Basic book explains the structure required to document.
Every time I open this book I wonder if it was organized by a monkey with down syndrome. There is so much information that they try to cram into such a small space that it makes the book almost unusable. Furthermore, every time you look up a rule it tells you to look at another rule which kicks you over to another rule. Seriously, make the book bigger and give more examples. Of all the books I've ever cracked the binding on, this one takes the cake for utter, shrieking lunacy.
Ah, the bluebook. I hate it, but you have to have it as a lawyer.
poor copy, lacking too many poems. at least not costly. but meaningless
This is a swindle. There is nothing German about the book, not even the publisher or author let alone the poems. It is a very poor xerox of a library book, by some translator(s) into English or interpreters other than Fitzgerald. I am amazed Amazon sells such a shoddy product as prime.
This is an antiquated method of citation whose time has come for realistic revision; just because Harvard is Harvard does not cause this to be useful any more.  While methods of citation are of course necessary and univeral methods valid the tediousness of this journal is archaic.  It is too long and too detailed and now days too unnecessary.  By the way, when I purchased this product it was listed in "very good" condition; the back was falling off and it wasn't laminated.  When I emailed the seller I received no response.  Totally unhappy all the way around.
I ordered this product exactly 33 days ago and have not received it! When contacting Amazon, then told me there was nothing they could do for me. Amazon has these third party companies selling products on their website without even checking the company out. I ordered another book at the same time that I haven't received as well, and when I looked up the name of the company with the BBB, they had a rating of an F. I emailed both companies and got no emails back. AMAZON DIDN'T EVEN HAVE THE COMPANIES PHONE NUMBERS ON FILE!! I am not only disappointed with the service from the third party, but with Amazon as well.  HORRIBLE SERVICE!!!!
As others have noted, there is no telling when or (or if) this series will ever finish.  I've read books 1 thru 4 (out of 5), and decided to quit reading any further until the series is complete.  At 72, I may not live that long, and who knows if the author will survive that long since he seems to take 4 or 5 years per book.  I recommend waiting until it actually happens.  That said, there is a lot to like in the books if the story line didn't drag out so slowly.  This would have been a great 4 or 5 book series, at 7 books it is just reader abuse.
Books 1 through 3 were good, some of the best I have read.  The last two were not good and a chore to read.  Book 6 has not been released and you are not getting it here.
Just finished a Dance with Dragons. If by dance George means a lot of new characters, and dragons a lot of descriptions with no plot line development, then it's a dance with dragons. I had to force myself to finish this book. I just wanted to see what, if anything, happened. Nothing did. I loved the first 3 books of this series, even tolerated the fourth one, but this last one. I get that he likes cliff hangers - but did anyone else think he was so intent on creating cliff hangers, he forgot to write a story? I have also learned not to like any characters - why? I think George trolls his own blogs and book discussions, determines which characters people might like, and makes sure to mess them up in order to show readers there are no "good" characters. He is trying so hard to prove that no characters are "good" or "bad" that it is becoming cliche and predictable. Here's hoping book 6 might get back to the quality of books 1 through 3.
I didn't like it at all.it was very hard for me to keep reading it ! It just didn't have it ,the other books were great ! This book fell short of my expectations! To bad for the money I spent was not worth it at all!
Words are wind, George, and you seem to like yours more than most. A ramble worthy of any mad Targaryen. Just finish the books, George.
becouse,only cover book it says, rubaiyar of omar khayyat but  under cover it was a different book, i did;t looking for ,i reterned it back, you probably should know..ira
I couldn't do anything with it since it was in English and I was going to give it to a Spanish speaking friend.  Your refund system worked well however.  Until this request for a review came I found it almost impossible to explain this to your organization.
The is a mini course in how to sell books on or illustrated by Frank Brangwyn (or FB, or Sir Francis Brangwyn, RA) and other artists/illustrators of his era. First it is important to know who buys books on FB. The largest audience are art lovers and artists, but mostly artists and artists who are collectors.  Most books sellers have never heard of FB.  FB is a PAINTERS PAINTER, that is his works to the best educated and successful professional artists, know that Branwyn's works are a pleasure to study and an inspiration to their own careers. They seldom unless sans anything else read the books they buy about Brangwyn's work because THEY BUY THEM FOR THE ART, not for the writing!  One cannot, does not, sell such books SANS any pictures shown in the add, or at least a list of all of his works in that book and how many are in color. That is the most important thing.  So, if you really want to sell any book containing the work of Frank Brangwyn, list the Number of paintings or other art, and how many are in color. If you do and the price is realistic you will sell it. Who knows I may be a buyer, but not sans knowing what art it contains. How many illustrations are there in this book and how many of them are in color? The sales lessen is free. PS If there was an address or email to your site I would have written to you instead of doing a review.
The volume I received bore no relationship to the photo or the description. I received a 1947 Random House edition, crudely printed especially in the illustrations. The slipcover was in extremely poor condition - broken and torn at multiple points - so poor that I simply threw it away (it is not worth the cost of returning from an international location). This was at best appalling customer service.
An interminable rambling devoid of any plot! Inordinately repetitive, laborious reading with no end. Quite what the dance with dragons was escapes me entirely.
Although Martin can write well and pulls you in with some interesting characters and gripping scenes, this book and others in the series are too long, wordy and convoluted.  Martin tends follow a character to a point then without resolution switches to another character you've never heard of and starts building a far fetch tale with them. You'll be flipping pages in irritation just to get through dense verbosity.
The translation listed was the McCarthy translation but Amazon downloaded the Fitzgerald translation. The Fitzgerald translation is ubiquitous. The McCarthy translation is not often seen.
The publishers of this book have certainly got poor taste. They have the Artist's name wrong. They probably also did not acquire proper copyright permission from the Artist or others. To comment any further please go to Chughtaimuseumlahore.com
Unfortunately this edition of the Rubaiyat does not contain all of the Sullivan illustrations. I would consider this the sanitized Edition since at least half are missing and at that the best. The pottery shop group are omitted plus those with religious Connotation. So if the art is important to you, this edition is not. Sorry.
Good lord How much more dithering and dallying must we read while G Martin ekes out his words and regurgitates the same drivel we've read time and time again? Every chapter borrows immense tracts from the previous chapters about the subject. Very little new has happened, and I find myself at the end of another disappointing book.  How many books does he thinks he needs to write to make more money?  Please Mr Martin, get back to the tight and interesting and evocative story telling of your first three books, because since then you've just been going up,your own b*m, and you're taking an awfully long time about it.  Erich
Below is what I wrote on facebook the day I quit book 5, A Dance with Dragons (NO SPOILERS):  THAT IS IT!!! I am quitting George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire. I have never done this with a book before, least of all one so masterful, but I am tired of reading simply to see vengeance enacted on mad lions and treacherous bannermen.  I am sick and tired of his twisted universe of whores and swords, where honor is as dead as those who loose their heads because of it.  True Fantasy is about love, justice, adventure, and wisdom, all of which is demonstrated through lack of example in Ice and Fire.  Ice is cold and treacherous, fire is hot and ruthless. GOOD RIDDANCE.
I loved the first three books, but four and five are basically 2000 pages of nothing.  It is clear that Martin is milking the story and has absically abandonded anything resembling a plot now that he can start collecting HBO royalities and stretch this out as long as possible.  The books read like a soap opera and moves just about as fast.  To be honest there are about 400 pages of intersting, well written, story telling embedded in the almost 2000 pages of books four and five.  Good luck finding them.
The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam Omar Khayyam (Author), Muraqqa Chugtai (Illustrator), Edward FitzGerald (Translator)  This book uses the art or Abdur Rehman Chughtai and uses his name as Muraqqa Chugtai, Muraqqa means ilustrated and they took this name from another Poet Galibs Illustrated version, They even took the art from Murraqqa Dewan Galib and using it on Omar Kyayyam's poetry, More patethic they even flopped the art, ( mirror Image or reverse the printing its really bad and really sad, Why they are doing this I have no idea................. I will not recommend any one to buy a book wich stole art and don't even know the name of the artist
So many books, so many pages, and yet nothing has really happened yet. I have been reading for weeks and weeks in hopes of some conclusion. Very frustrated. Pointless.
Don't waste your time with this trite collection of vapid, paganistic, intellectually lazy and self-indulgent quatrains.  The soul of Persia and Persian literature is poorly represented here.  You are better off reading  Rumi and Hafiz than this twaddle.  What we have here is an unrepentant  pagan being translated by a 19th Century neo-pagan, and the result is an  incomprehensible, senseless mush.  The writer and translator appear  unwilling, or rather incapable, of plombing the depths of the questions  raised here, rather opting for the trite, tired, vapid and unsatisfying  answers of antiquity - -and this not out of any deep reflection, but rather  as the result of intellectual laziness and epicurean self-indulgence.  Make  no mistake -- this is lightweight drivel.
I have never read any book that danced around the plot the way this author has.  There is absolutely no redeeming value to any character in these books.  I don't think he will ever get to the end.  There was something new and exciting in this world--a huge threat and a great menace.  But he has wasted such time in giving every single person in the entire world a POV, that I cannot in good conscience read another sentence.  I am disgusted by the characters in these books.  They seem to have no PURPOSE.  Give them a PURPOSE, man!  cat
I am a huge fan of the first three books in this series but GRRM is clearly under pressure to lengthen the series now that it is so popular. It's become a wending, pointless story. It's exciting in the first book when Martin kills off the character we think is the hero 2/3 of the way through. It's just disappointing in the fifth book when he kills off a character he introduced in the fifth book that we could not possibly care any less about.  And we really begin to lose our interest in the main characters at this point. One of the more important characters in the oak get stabbed near the end and I have no desire to find out if he lives or dies.  I MAY borrow the next book from the library and read it if I have nothing better to do but I won't be buying any more of them. GRRM has enough $ now and the love is gone.
I loved the first book and book 2-3 were pretty interesting. a little strung out, book 4 was headed for another book, Then book five is long winded. at t The series had more then enough vulgarity mentioned but this last book has way too much odd sex slipped in with bodily elimation discussion for me. (and I am a nurse) Seems to drag, very disappointing. I will not be reading book 6.
Bad Bad read, even worse then the last one. I had such hopes left empty and a little upset. Going to have to let this story fade from memory and pretend I never heard of a Stark.
This is one of those series where it just feels like the author grew to hate everything to do with the world he had created and started wantonly slaughtering the main characters with no thought as to how he was going to fill in the gaps that they left in the story.  Between the 5 years it took him to write this and the fact that he is off writing another series of books now I would DEFINITELY advise against buying anything that this author writes until he completely finishes the series or you might just get burned like so many have .  Oh and what was the deal with the so many chapters being dedicated to shallow boring characters that had no influence on the overall story.  It felt to me like they were just there to add extra chapters to an overly long book in a series that will in all likely hood never be finished due to the author dying of old age half way through the 7th book.  That and I don't know about you but I don't fee like waiting another decade for books six and seven to be released.
Needs to end the story, it has gotten a little ridiculous. It really looks like nothing, but an effort to sell more books.
Sounds like Martin is developing a case of the Robert Jordan syndrome - writing a story that will never end, like one of the soap operas on afternoon tv  ps how do i rate ZERO stars??
I wouldn't recommend these books to anyone!  They are laborious to read, complex and frustrating !  The characters are interesting but the writer never fully completes their stories. I am left frustrated with a feeling of incompletion. I wish I had never started them.
This series should have been three good books but ended up five OK books. Seems author spread out the books to make money, but watered down the story in doing so. Books 1,2&3 were good reads, but 4&5 were the worst books that I have read in a long time.  Wish I hadn't read them and stopped at 3.
When I. spend the time and energy to read a series of 5 books I expect an ending. I turn pages in a book to find out  what happens next. It's like the author was undecided on an ending so just quit writing.
SPOILERS (in the last paragraph)  I literally just finished reading this book and I have to say, I've never been more disappointed over a fantasy series in my life.  Seriously, what did I just put myself through?  The story development crawls along at a snail's pace and just like the 4th book in the series, nothing really happens.  If you're planning on reading both the 4th and 5th book of GOF, my advice would be to just read the bible instead.  Their content is equally interesting (not at all) and they're pretty comparable in length.  I was really hoping George Martin had like an epic, masterful layout for this series, and still clung on to that hope after reading "A Feast for Crows."  I just kept telling myself, "ok, he's expanding on new characters because over half the original characters are dead."  But, as it turns out, he's totally winging it.  And whats worse, he's milking this story for every penny its worth by including meaningless details such as in-depth descriptions of meals (seriously, we don't need to know every single aspect of every characters breakfast or supper on every single chapter) and baths and reoccuring lines like : "You know nothing Jon Snow."  Or "I must remember my name is Reek it rhymes with meek."  And Jon Snow dies?  Are...you...freaking... kidding...me.  And not by one the others.  Not by a wilding, a giant, or a mammoth, or anything cool.  He just gets stabbed by one of his brothers or queens men or one of the other 250 plus characters thrown at you.  Don't get me wrong, part of George Martin's appeal to me was his insensitivity towards the reader and his willingness to kill off main characters.  But the death of Jon Snow was the death of the last cool stark and, for me, the last reason to read any further.  A 1500 page book and the only real thing that happens is my favorite character dies...unbelievable.
Such a disappointment......this book had no conclusion!!!! I loved the first 3 books, the four left much to be desired and now the concluding book had no ending!
I began to read this book on Oyster just before Oyster went out of business.  I attempted to finish reading it on Kindle after purchasing it and find that after numerous attempts to open it and continue reading it I am unable to do that. The book is a classic and I would like to finish reading it but I cannot give it a positive rating as an Amazon Kindle book when I cannot read it after making every effort.  All of you folks out there who get real upset at bad reviews can cool it because I can't  rate something if I can't read it and I can't read the Kindle version.  I have had no trouble like this with other books.  I will try it on Nook.  I really do want to finish it.
The book not being lendable by the publisher will lead me to pirate this book to my friends and family. Publisher YOU SUCK, Thanks for being a dick for ABSOLUTELY NO REASON.
It's amazing how much was written without actually progressing anything to a satisfactory plot point.  I'll admit that at first the series was intriguing and novel in approach, but it's now gone to a point of bloated ridiculous.  Too many characters, too much focus on things I couldn't give two sneezes about, all the while seeming to completely blitz over the characters (and plots) I liked accepting of course that the author didn't kill them first.  In truth I've spent more time thinking about how I'd have liked the series to this point to be written than finding merit in how it was actually written and prayed for the first time in my known life that the Television adaptation of this now monstrosity severely edits it into something manageable and far more enjoyable for it.  I honestly don't think I'll buy the next book, as much as on a point of principle for how annoyed I am with how this book was written.
rip off due to excessive cost, it wasn't worth the cost.  he is milking the public and just filling space. i won't ever buy another book by this author.
I had forgotten how totally thick and unappealing Russian literature is. In the first fifty pages Mr. Grossman introduced and developed over twelve characters. At one point I was totally confused as to which character was doing what.
Could not get into it. The writing was just not interesting to me
So I started the series after watching the first 2 seasons of the TV series and was really happy with the first 3 books and then came book 4...total crap and "A Dance of Dragons" is even worse. I can't imagine what the screenwriters are going to do for the TV series.
The last image that I have to remember about this book is that of one of the main characters eating a burned and bloody meal.  Authors today must be hard up for cash or just plain greedy. What started as a wonderful epic novel has now turned into the most boring story I have ever read.  Trying to remember all of the characters names after waiting what seems like ten years for this trash to be published is just ridiculous. I have been a fan of fantasy novels for years but I'm seriously considering giving it up. It's just not worth it anymore.  Boring can't even begin to describe the way I feel about this book. I literally forced myself to complete it just to see how disastrously it would end. At least that didn't disappoint me.
I've just been notified by Amazon that the paperback release date for this book has been pushed back AGAIN, this time until September of 2014.  Absolutely ridiculous that it will take at least three and a half years to get a paperback to market, and for people who like their series to be in the same format, a hard cover is not an option.  Order cancelled.
Others have already written excellent (and funny) reviews of this book, noting how pointless and meandering the story and characters have become in Dance with Dragons. I am so annoyed with G.Martin and where he has taken us with DoD that I feel I must add my two cents. As others have said, the first three books were amazing. I could not wait to turn the page to see what happened, nevermind get to the next book in the series. However, at this point, I fear the author has either lost his way, or gone off track from where he originally intended to go with this series in an effort to keep the money flowing. I hate to be so jaded but I really feel like this series was meant to be a trilogy, and would have been one of the best trilogies out there -- but instead it has been dragged out for non-creative reasons that have killed the series. Perhaps it is just that G.Martin loves the characters and story so much that he can't stop dragging it out, or perhaps he has gotten bored with the story and the characters. Whatever the reason, he has lost me. I was getting skeptical at Bk 4, but carried on in the hope that he had possibly just hit a slow spot. Then, DoD confirmed it for me. The series has languished to a point that becomes almost comical (as evidenced by some of the hysterical "character" commentaries included in other reviews). I hope G. Martin reads the reviews posted here and re-thinks his plan to drag this out further. As for me, I believe I am done with this series out of exhaustion and boredom. I do want to know "how it all ends" though, so if I ever see that the final 7th or 11th or 15th book has been published, I will probably read it to close the chapter once and for all.
I was originally excited for the fifth and final book and delighted when I could finally download it to my kindle. I am saddened to have the last book just so disappointing. It was as if the author just didn't know how to "wrap it up"!  :(
i think not. done with the series. would understand if the book was brand new but two more have came out since then.
The accent is just wretched.  He makes too many voices like pathetic old men.  They all sound the same.  They sound like they are going to croak any second.
I read the previous four books. Martin is brilliant writer, but there was no redemption afforded the main characters. Anytime you became attached to a character, whether bad or good, you would anticipate some change of heart to good or have the good characters achieve the completion of their efforts. This never happened! What you can expect is them dying a horrible death. Every main character that did not die was left suspended with no closure. I truly anticipated that this fifth book would have tied all the many plots and characters of the previous four books together. On top of all this, you get tired of the debauchery and foul images painted throughout; too many rapes and too many disembowelments. Evidently, G.R.Martin, although he lived in this world of his, could not bring his characters to conclusion.
The "Game of Thrones" series of books is absolutely terrible and frustrating.  I just finished book 5 and am angry that I kept reading.  Admittedly Martin has created an fascinating world and many great characters.  I was hooked from the start and expected to finish the series loving the books.  Instead I finished book 5 angry with myself for wasting all that time and with even more angry with the manipulative author.  The main problem is that Martin ignores one of the basics of the story-telling arc.  The Climax. Often referred to as "The End."  If a story is to big to be told in a single novel, we have the tradition of the trilogy.  In a series or a trilogy each book still wraps up most story lines with a hint of further challenges ahead.  These books end with major characters and plot lines dropped for hundreds or even thousands of pages.  After 5 books and several thousand pages, the fundamental story in still far from resolution.  I feel manipulated.  Martin has clearly concluded that he can milk us for the maximum amount of revenue without bothering to conclude this story.  I read a lot and don't often write reviews.  This series is a waste of time.  Read "Dune", read Asimov's "Foundation Trilogy" read "Three Day Road", read anything.  But for the love of all that is good about books, stay AWAY from this series.  If I save even one reader with this warning it will all have been worthwhile.
For fans of this series, if you haven't "attempted" to read this yet, I strongly urge you to get this book at the library. Take a friend out to lunch for the money you'll save. It will be well worth it.  For the record, I'm a huge fan. I loved the first 3 books of this series and thirsted for more; upon reading A Feast for Crows, though, I started to get a little put off. Too much jumping around, not enough movement, too many new characters making appearances that did nothing for the story but fatten the book. And then I read the Author's notes in which he described his effort to write AFFC "a b**ch". Got me thinking that GRRM is tired of his effort in the series. And it was telling in the way that book read.  When I opened up Dance with Dragons (thankfully obtained at the library), I read the Author's note first. He said, if the last one was "a b**ch, this one was three b**ches and a bastard." Not an auspicious statement and as it turns out, this book was exactly "three b**ches and a bastard" to read.  The hardcover is, I think, about 1016 pages long including about 52 pages of character lists at the end. Some of the favorite and interesting characters make an appearance at the beginning and never return or halfway through and stay for a chapter. And do nothing to advance the plot. Some of the characters go by different names throughout so you have almost no idea who you're reading about while the plot is not advancing. (I gave up and skipped entire chapters at a time or read the last page of a chapter and was none the worse at the end.) About 6 new characters are introduced in every chapter that have nothing to do with anything. The plot, I'm not kidding, in 1016 pages seems to move about one month in the timeline. It is so godawful dull and boring and unimaginative, it could only be written by a great author who no longer gives a rip about this series ... and should just kill it now. I don't even want to know how it ends. Almost no character he made me love or even hate survives in any form I care to read about any further. I just don't care anymore. It's a sad thing for an author when his indifference seeps into his writing and that indifference numbs his fans. The only fantasy in this series is GRRM's conviction that this is something worthy of reading. It's just bad writing, bad (as in zero) editing, bad character development, bad period. Fifty-two pages to list the characters and the plot moves a month or so. Others take him. Winter can't come soon enough.
Very disappointing. I will not read the last two books. Too many characters and details that add nothing to the story. Loved the first four books.
This is a rehash of previous book with lots of pointless description and lame plot twist. The author is to full of himself.
Read the review by Macaroni. Nothing else needs to be said. Nine more words are required for me to post, however. /sigh
It's just got clear in this book that the author just lost his way or its pushing away the end of the novel,  so he can sell more and more..... After finishing "A Feast for Crows" I thought it was going to be impossible for George R.R. Martin repeat his mistakes and deliver something so of the track again, but I was completely wrong about it. A Dance of Dragons just showed me that things can always get worst. The story go nowhere until the final pages. It was just a relief when I finished the book, knowing  that I didn't have to go anymore through stories that doesn't add anything to the plot (if there are still a plot after all...). From page one I was missing the cleverness and the fast developing of the plot - what made  "A Clash of Kings" one of my favorite books to date - but I was naive enough to persist through the book, hoping that somewhere the story will start kick-in... a sad disappointment.
The 5th book in this series is as boring and a slog to read as was Book 4. Enough already, just get to the end so I can know who survives and who wins the war. Books 1-3 were well written, and this is NOT a 10 book Harry Potter series. It has taken me to SKIMMING through 70% of the book just to get to find out what is going on with the Character Cercei. The subplot for Tyrion and Jorah was UNNEEDED, UNNECESSARY, and should did not do anything to improve this book. George, PLEASE, if you read these reviews, stop writing already and get to the end.  If you do not mind paying for this book, you could just read the last 4 chapters.  I understand there is a Book 6 coming. At this point, I will wait until the LAST book to buy another one.
(semi-crossposted from Westeros.org)  Unlike many of Ice and Fire's fans I wasn't put off much by Feast. I did think it was the weakest of the first 4 books but there seemed to be good excuses for that. It was "bridging the 5 year gap", had tier 2 characters, etc etc. That just made me all the more hungry for the next book. The writing was still good and it was sort of refreshing to take a break from the plot-heavy action for a more leisurely look at Westeros.  But in ADWD it is beyond obvious that something has gone seriously wrong. From what little happens, Dance and Feast could have been combined into one book easily. EASILY. There is no reason we had to have eleventy chapters of Tyrion looking at turtles and having witless conversations with Penny, or of Dany tugging her braids and doing absolutely nothing except chaining up the only sources of her power base and forgetting about them.  Worse, though - the prose feels DEAD. Ugly. Muddy. Crude. Bitter. There's always been darkness and profanity in the series, but there used to be an energy behind it, a contrast to beautiful and hopeful things that were also present. Now every POV seems to have the same tired and sour mind behind it - a mind that I'm worried is that of the author himself who just might have started to really hate the series.  My anticipation for the rest of the series feels like it's been surgically removed. It's amazing how differently I feel now than when I started Dance. I have no more faith in GRRM's ability to handle his profession and will stop recommending this series to my friends.  Two stars on its own merits. One star because it is not just a bad book in and of itself, it also torpedoes what had been shaping up to be a truly great story.
The first three were somewhat tiresome but worth reading for the verisimilitude and feel of being there and involved in the plot and the ACTION. I should have known with volume four to quit while I was (barely) ahead. Now, no action except when the author thinks he has just about put you to sleep. The dwarf's humor has even grown trite and banal. Now there are only words, and words, and words, and even more words, put together in no particularly pleasing order. When he killed off yet another Stark (Snow) in a matter of half a page to no good purpose, I almost threw the book at the wall. You sold us out Mr. Martin; most sagas are supposed to have an aim and an end. You are NOT a Tolkien. You have made your pile of money now please go enjoy it somewhere rather than destroy your reputation and our reading pleasure further. Shame, shame, shame! Seth Aragon
I put off writing this review for a while.  I could not make it through this book. This book and "A Feast for Crows" have convinced me that Martin has totally lost control of the plot of this series.  There are far too many unresolved, pointless plot lines and characters.  At this point, it seems that Martin is including random thoughts into the story without any consideration of how they advance the plot.  I've given up on this series and would not recommend it to anyone.  Hard core fans will disagree, but there are far better books to read.
i loved the first two books. the third and fourth books were ok. this book number five was terrible. i really do not care how characters broke their fast which is so boring who they sat next too even dumber and what they were wearing the ultimate in stupidity. i already know if there is a book six i will not buy it. so much unresolved you know the author is banking on book six. i would rather use my own imagination and complete this epic saga myself. this series could have been so much better than it is.
After waiting 6 years for this book I am profoundly disappointed. If possible I would give this book a 0 star rating. There is significant chapter bloat where GRRM seems to prattle on and on and on, yet not advance the plot. The "cliff-hangers" seem endless in a decidedly Lost-esque fashion. Tyrion seems to have lost something and the only explanation I have is that in taking so freaking long to write the book, GRRM himself changed and that was reflected in his writing. One of the TV themed cliff-hangers from AFFC is resolved in a wholly anti-climatic paragraph long blurb with no further exploration of that plot line. I only wish I had shown a little more restraint and waited for the library to have the book available for check out instead of buying the hard cover for myself. I recommend that if you do wish to read this book that you check it out from the library. And if GRRM manages to stave off death long enough to actually finish the series (which I seriously doubt), borrow a copy from the library.
I have to preface by saying I loved book 1 but have been increasingly disappointed with subsequent novels. (OK maybe book 3 was reasonable). It is sad to see a series where each book is about half as good as the one before it. Martin needs an editor with an iron fist. This book makes watching grass grow exciting. Really, why take every character that you have built over many books and either degrade them, make them unpleasant and unlikable, or just slit their throat. And while you are at it, throw in some brand new characters who meander around contributing nothing to the overarching storyline.  I so enjoyed the first book. I survived the death of so many main characters in the next few books. But now, I just can't be bothered anymore. The whole series should have stayed a trilogy. I can't make the effort to wade through chapters of nothing to get the odd tidbit of plot progression.  Can someone tell me after they finish the series if anyone worth caring for survives? Do the dragons come and melt the icy bad guys? Does Tyrion get to be King? Do I really care?
The only good thing about this book in the series is the enjoyment I received reading the other reviewers expressing their disappointment, as well.
I hunkered down and read Dance with Dragons having read the previous four in the series.  Ended up skimming the whole thing and even that was a waste of my time.  All the really good characters are left unresolved for the most part.  Dumbest thing ever.  Really, really, really frustrating and disappointing. I can't recall being so completely disgusted with a book and an author.
Ice and Fire Books 1 through 3 are brutal, powerful, and engaging if you can look beyond the cruelty and enjoy the "game".  Book 4 is brutal, ponderous and not very interesting.  Book 5 is brutal, boring, circuitous, and disappointing, and contains nothing but cruelty.  Martin has lost the game, dropped the reins, left the building.  Having just slogged through "A Dance with Dragons", I am no longer interested in the fates of the characters -- those who remain -- and Mr. Martin's world has become an endless, dreary hell of death, destruction and despair.  I will not buy Books 6 through Infinity as I don't want to read about unrelenting hatred, gratuitous violence, baby killing, blood sacrifice, grotesque animal abuse, face eating and/or excrement eating, body fluids, gore, little boys being thrown overboard because "their kind" shouldn't be allowed to live, and men whose only use for women is to "take" them forcibly as a prelude to killing them.  Really, how many child rapes can an author cram into a series?  Hey! I enjoy sex scenes as much as the next person, but some of this dreadful stuff is kiddie porn.  It seems that Mr. Martin continues to write not to advance the story lines established in Books 1-3, but to vividly describe each and every horrible way a woman, man, child, infant, or beast can be gruesomely hurt and/or die.  And, oh yeah, forget about dying and coming back to a happy afterlife! Indeed, every story development that could be considered even slightly uplifting was left hanging back in Book 3.  In some reviews of the early Ice and Fire books, Martin was favorably compared to Tolkien -- undeniably, Martin can write a powerful description. And, each author does have a double-barreled middle name! However, Tolkien developed an intricate, magical world in which loyalty, compassion, honor and even--gasp!--love could endure.  Martin's world is so dark and his characters so despicable that nothing worthy can endure. Tolkien wrote about a quest, Martin writes about --what? -- who cares?  Take the advice of many reviewers -- save your grey matter and skip this one.
This set is partially complete due to the fact that 2 of the 7 books in the series are yet to be publishes. The reason there are 6 books is one of the books has been divided into 2 parts.
I wish I had just read the reviews and  not bothered with the book. Many of them have somehow managed to compress 1000+ pages into 10 at the most. How is it possible that people have condensed it so much when Martin couldnt?  Clearly he needs to fire his editor/s. And maybe try and care about the story just a little.  It seems that almost any reviewer here could do a better job than Martins.  Maybe someone could write a 200 page condensed version where our fav chacters actually live. But I have had enough of this sh**. Who could even be bothered? Thats all i'm left with now that the anger has faded. Apathy.
everyone: llalalala im so bored. Recap: This book was ok, but needs more acton and a climax! Man, I could write a better book!
It was tough getting through this book with so many useless characters that add nothing to the story. I hope the 6th book will help move the story along a little more.
I have enjoyed all the previous Game of Throne books, but this one was horrible! It was unnecessarily complex, introduced a multitude of unimportant characters, killed off major characters and lost any semblance of a story line.  It took me four months to finish it and I only did it to say I did. Don't read this book!
WARNING! SPOILER ALERT: The author should spend less time with the hbo series and more time with decent writing. This series started out great. It has become nothing but a mishmash of drivel by book 5.  Too many characters with no substance.. Nothing but pages of mindless meaningless words that drag on but do not advance the storyline.  If the author had stuck to the major characters and expanded upon them instead of killing them all off, the book could have been on the level of Tolkein's work. That comparison has now been lost. What is left to look forward to after the author has killed off Ned Stark, Caitlyn Stark, Joffrey, Robb Stark, Brienne,and a host of others.  Now we're left with Jon Snow stabbed 4 times and no knowledge of his fate at the end of book 5.. Is he dead or not? This is tiresome. The few remaining characters need to 'grow up' in the next book and the Stark children should be returned to Winterfell with the help of Jon Snow to rebuild. It would be perfectly legit for Tommen or some king to release Jon from his vows to the blackwatch so he could stay on as their protector along with perhaps Sam as their Maester and help Gilly raise both 'babe's, or something along those lines.  I'm just weighted down with the total chaos of this series. I keep waiting for the author to understand that we have no reason to have any kind of attachment to the books or characters when we know he's just going to kill them off anyway.. So why bother? Enough of the frivolous killing off good characters. Something good needs to happen and stay happened. lets MAKE SOME PROGRESS! I'm so disgusted with this series that I'm pretty much done with it.. If it remains this stagnant I won't be buying anymore. there was enough good material in these 5 books to have made 2, possibly 3 great books but the inclusion of so much drivel and wasted characters has expanded it to really tiresome reading. Just way too much froth. It's beginning to sound juvenile and in no way written by the same person who started the series. This author is losing his audience to anger and a angry audience won't buy his work anymore. No one wants a constant let down.  Just my humble opinion.
This is the fifth book of the series, and JJ Martin introduces so many new characters and loose threads that he demolishes his previous excellent series. When I read that he will (IF?) bring out the sequel (and hopefully last book) in 2014, I immediately gave up on "Dragons", 15% through, and filed it for when he eventually writes the sequel. I'd recommend Bernard Cornwell's novels, rich in European history from the first inhabitants of Britain, with dramatic scenes of real battles, and. Every novel has a distinct beginning and ending, even though many are part of a series. Also his American Civil war series are rich in the bloody North/South conflict that tore the nation apart, then established an essential part of our nations fabric. JJ Martin lost interest in his series at the fourth book and it shows.
Ienjoyed the first four books, but the last one I got so tired of the endless row of names that attende any type of gathering. There didn't seem to be any decisive ending. I imagine that he intends to write another in the series. I won't read it. He left the Others in never-never land. He left Bran the watchman fora dying religion. Sansa in the hands of a lecher. Goody-goody Dana crawling in the grass while she has three of the most powerful weapons of that time at her disposal. So much more fog. Sorry.
After reading this fantasy novel, a volume of a fantasy series, I was disappointed. I never expected there to be sooooooo many dancing dragons. While the silver dragon was a fairly competent dancer, I found the others lacking and, in the end, they contributed little to the overall narrative. As if that wasn't bad enough, what I found particularly disheartening was complete absence of the crows of feasting. What happened to all the crows? And the maids of milking . . . nothing! If the author of this fantasy series wants to bring back what has become a stagnant storyline, there must be a return of things make story good fun go team. UNICORNS!
I seriously think that "Postern of Fate" is one of the WORST books I have ever read! The plot is so confusing and boring that you really have no idea what crime was committed in the first place! The only reason I  read the whole book was to find out te ending, which was even more dull  than the book itself.  What was Agatha Christie thinking?
I was truly disappointed by this book.  I love Agatha Christie, and have always considered her not only a great mystery writer, but also a marvelous novelist as well.  Yet this book probably is the worst of all her writings.  (I've read close to 30 of her full-length novel and some short stories so  far).  So don't ever read this book if you don't want to feel sorry for  Agatha or yourself.
Unaceptable. I can't cope with a digital edition more expensive then a printed one. As a matter of fact, digital editions should be 30-40% less than paperback.
I'm reading it just because I rode a long long way to get where I am and do not want to surrender. Still, sadly this is going to become the last volume I read: too many characters split over an even bigger land. Maps, city names, subplots to be considered and worst than all I also have to catch up with a broken timeline as this volumes is partially contemporary to "A feas for crows". Maybe after all I can't take it anymore: also the style appears to be lower in quality and the characters are plain and repeat themselves. Sorry ppl, me neither knew it could end this way.
Very difficult to understand the reader.  He wants to use different voices, but it becomes mush!
This book was ridiculously long for a book in which NOTHING HAPPENED!  The entire book was endless detail that nobody is interested in(including the characters), the introduction of new characters while doing absolutely nothing with the ones we're already familiar with and as usual, the death of those you probably like.  We know the real world sucks, that's why we read fantasy, George. So the good guy can win for a change. Total suckfest.
The book and the one that precedes it show beyond a doubt that George R. R. (Read-on, Read-on) Martin is out of ideas.  This "saga" might as well have ended with the Red Wedding.  Each chapter is like an episode in a soap opera.  It just grinds on with no apparent direction.  When he is totally devoid of imagination, Mr. Martin resorts to gratuitous obscenity and sex.  This is recurring with increasing frequency.  I'm not sure I'm even interested in how this story ends, if it ever does.
this is one of the most senseless novels i have read in a long time and look who the author is,queen of crime,dame agatha. this is not at all worth the money. grab a free copy elsewhere or borrow a book. the plot drags on and on and tommy and tuppence are very good at this stupid guessing game, surprisingly. stay away!!!!
Incomplete  not one story line complete where is the ending  a book six is needed -if not you're a stinker
This book is very long. Martin would have benefitted with some judicious editing.  The real disappointment here is that: nothing happens...  Why waste the readers time for 1000 pages without any character getting anywhere?  In the end, I'm disappointed that I even bothered. Save your money.
I managed to make it halfway through this rambling, mumbling book in which nothing happens and there is no mystery, no matter how hard Dame Christie tries to drum one up.  For example, the first two chapters were given over to Tommy and Tuppence discussing books.  Wake me up when it's over!!!  Then I decided to check reviews on Amazon and when I saw the overwhelming negative reviews for this book I realized it wasn't just me.  Then I read the Wikipedia article and learned that this was the last book Agatha Christie wrote, when she was advanced in age.  Although that does give me some sympathy for the author, it doesn't make this awful book any better.  She should have quit when she was ahead!!!  The narrator wasn't that great, either.  He is obviously skilled, but his voicing of Tuppence was awful.  He made her sound about 99 years old.  And much of the dialogue was so mumbling that I couldn't understand it.  Although perhaps that is as much the fault of the author as of the narrator; he is, after all, only trying to suit his voicing of the dialogue to the way the author wrote it.  My advice -- skip this one!!!!!!!!  A definite waste of time.
This book is nowhere close to Agatha Christie's standard.  The more I read, the more confused I became. We first met Tommy and Tuppence at the end of World War I.  They are now in their seventies.  The past events they are investigating in this book took place just before or during WWI, and yet they are constantly talking to people older than they are, who refer to things their grandmothers and great uncles told them about the events.  As other readers have stated, there is LOTS of talking about nothing.  The few discoveries that the Beresfords make are never explained, and in the end the reader is left wondering why the past events matter in the present day.  I firmly believe that either Dame Agatha didn't actually write this book, or she was developing Alzheimer's.  I can only assume her publisher printed it sight unseen, trusting in her reputation.  Agatha Christie is one of my favorite authors, but if this had been the first of her books that I'd read, I never would have even considered picking up another.
Worst Agatha Christie, hands down.  Standing on the distant periphery of a very low-octane spy/murder mystery, one listens helplessly as the two yawn-inducing retirees exchange Quaint Old Married Couple repartee, prattle interminably about greengages and speckled laurels and old children's books, and dash off blithering into pointless digression at the first threat of tangible plot development.  Found a vital clue cunningly hidden, have we?  Actually examining it would be too obvious.  Instead, let's spend 5 minutes discussing Hannibal the dog, who--shock!--likes to bury bones and chase rabbits.  No, "progress" in this work consists of Tommy or Tuppence meeting some new octogenarian whose aunt's nephew's youngest boy may know a chap who might have heard something or other important about something to do with the victim.  They may not learn anything concrete from him when they track him down, but it's another great opportunity to discuss vegetable gardening.  The hoary specter of some atavistic fascist terror-cell looms periodically but never comes into focus: the ending "reveal" is a cop-out, vague and two-dimensional.  Imagine watching The 39 Steps or The Man Who Knew Too Much spooled backward with the soundtrack replaced by clucking hens and the projector lens liberally smeared with Vaseline, and you'll just about have the flavor.  Ultimately one is left with the urge to exhume either Christie or her errant editor--one can't quite be sure which is to blame, apparently--and shake said mortal remains violently in some vain hope of recapturing the seven hours wasted on this senescent muddle of a book.
I was excited to begin my first Agatha Christie book after hearing so much about her.  My 1973 hardback was picked up at a book sale.  I'm so glad that I read some reviews here to find that this is not representative of her work.  The plot has a resemblance to the TV show "Cold Case" in that it tries to figure out a crime from the past.  However, unlike the TV show, there are no flashbacks; so the past remains removed from the reader.  For each clue and discovery that either Tuppence or Tommy make, they seem to communicate it very imprecisely to the other, exactly the opposite of what I would think would make good detective work.  I kept hoping that the ending of the book would tie it together.  Although there was somewhat of an explanation about who the criminals were in the past and in the present, none of it was particularly clear or interesting.  Hannibal the dog was fun.  I think I will try to find an earlier work of hers, but my recommendation on this book is to pass.  Taxi!
This book's shortcomings have been pretty thoroughly documented here by other reviewers. I would just like to add that the confusion and boredom is compounded by endless pages of nothing specific being said:  "Something has been planned, something was never completely developed." "Somebody in whose hands it's got has made some adaptation of it." "And there's some idea that some of the clues could be found in the past."  The reader is never told who planned what, or what was adapted, or really anything interesting at all. Specific details would go a long way in making the plot coherent.
Just awful!  I forced myself to read it through to the end and am still not certain what the book was about.  I have been a Christie fan since I was ten years old and wish I hadn't wasted the time on this one.
As a die hard Christie fan, and loving the previous four T&T books, I felt I had to slog through and finish this one, and although the whodunnit is answered after a fashion, I still don't know whydunnit.  Christie wrote this one as an aged writer and it shows, with the main characters, themselves in their seventies, prattling on about nothing interesting or germane, and "witness" characters sounding like a visit with an aged relative who talks about people you have never met and they can't seem to quite remember.  Although in the end we do find out who did the actual dastardly deed(s), it doesn't seem to matter; I won't type out a spoiler here as far as motive, suffice it to say it was very unsatisfying and confusing.  Perhaps an English reader would get more out of it as there are references to what I think are actual historical events that happened in England, but I can only guess.  If you are a fan of T&T by all means read this one as it is the last, but for all other Christie readers I say skip it.
I am an Agatha Christie fan, and although her books don't have the deep character development of some authors, she's generally ingenious in the construction of the mysteries, and such a good writer that each book is a pleasure to read.  BUT.....this book is boring, boring, boring. There is no mystery to speak of, and such as it is, is solved pretty much without any particular input by the Beresford couple, Tommy and Tuppence, nor is it a mystery the reader gets to try to solve.  Tommy and Tuppence continually, page after page and chapter after chapter, speculate on what might be the solution to the mystery.  In the first place, speculation is not exactly detection. In the second place, about the sixth or eighth time Tuppence brightly wondered what might be the solution and Tommy fondly said he didn't know either, I wanted to strangle both of them. I prefer for SOMETHING to be happening in a book. NOT for the characters to be sitting around saying "Gee, there seems to be a mystery.  I wonder who did it?"  This might have made an amusing short story.  But it was strung out to tedious length and actually made me angry with myself for not just throwing it away instead of slogging all the way to the disappointing end.
Listen to this advice from an hardcore Christie fan: don't read this book. It's such a painful experience to see one of the greatest mystery writers ever getting into - I can't use another word - complete senility. The story (I can't call it a plot) goes nowhere. Characters are wooden, and some excerpts are merely ludicrous. If you really like Christie, be charitable and forget about that sad final opus. She wrote so many excellent things in her earlier years.
Picture perfect example of how a completely inane story gets published and read because it's written by a well known author. The plot is meaningless. As with Elephants Can Remember, I strongly advise you to read the last chapter and be done with it.
You will probably come to books 4 and 5 of A Song Of Fire And Ice expecting the books as good as Books 1 and 3. Or at least Book 2 (nobody expects much from "bridge" books so I don't think many were offended by #2). Won't you be disappointed.  Frank Zappa had a fun term in the 60's and 70's for albums that were obviously inferior to the band's previous work, cranked out just to get the record company off the artist's back; he called it a "contractual obligation" album. Books 4 and 5 are almost the opposite and Book 5 should never have been written. The whole thing should have been wrapped up in Book 4. I gave this book one less star than Book 4 because of the way it tortured me.  But the author succumbed to the lure of HBO money and so he strung out the series while lacking interesting material or story line, subjecting his readers to the worst sort of affliction any author can: boredom. Seriously, I felt like I was being punished by the end of the first third of Book 5. I had a heck of a time getting through the entire series (to date). Could 1800 or so pages (I have a Kindle so it's difficult to tell exactly) feel more like slow death? MY slow death?  I guess Martin decided that replacing interesting story with sex was an acceptable strategy to fill the pages. This ramps up in each book after Book 1 as he runs lower on ideas. Let me tell you, it works as well in book form as it does in poorly written movies; sex and swearing takes the place of good plot and character development perfectly, doesn't it? That must be why movie attendance is continually dropping, the strategy DOESN'T work. At all. I'll bet a lot of viewers drop out during Season 4 and the series may be cancelled by Season 5.  If you've read Books 1-3 just wait and go straight to Book 6. I guarantee you won't have missed much.
I cannot do a review on this product as it was ordered and shipped to another person as a gift.
i'm so glad to know i'm not alone in being so bored that i've actually finished all five. it's also good to know others are as sick of it as i am. i actually thought i was getting a little slow when i couldn't keep up with who was who, but who can?  this is almost like the "left behind" series but those books were short and the characters few in number.  the sameness i guess is we're dumb enough to keep buying and reading and they're happy to keep going to the bank.
You are not William Faulkner.  You're not even Cormac McCarthy. You're a fine writer of soap opera scripts, which is perhaps why you have NO idea how to wrap this up and end it effectively.  Like Stephen King you started with some fine creativity, and when you became famous you began to think you were smarter than your editor.  You are wrong. Get some help.  You are just irritating most of your readers at this point.
I got a few chapters into this book and couldn't do it.  I loved Game of Thrones, CLash of Kings, Storm of Swords, and was a bit disapointed with Crows.  Now I've completely lost interest.  For some reason many Fantasy authors feel like their epics most contain hundreds of minor character threads and continue on for 10,000 pages.  When I read GoT I was blown away, important stuff actually happened.  I was maybe a few hundred pages into ADwD when I realized that nothing was happening, I couldn't keep all of these people in my head, and I just didn't care what happened.
this guy takes so much time between books that you forget what's going on. He fills a book with words that don't mean anything. I read the first three books and like them. book 4 sucked. I will never read any more of his garbage.
This series is often compared to JRR Tolkien's Lord of the Rings--well this installment has put that lie to rest.  First the good points, character development and world building continue to be first quality and everything I have come to expect.  Now the bad and down right ugly points.  There are so many plot lines and so many "main" characters that the story has finally been lost completely. As a result after each chapter I was left on the edge of my seat anticipating the resolution of the events only to be repeatedly disappointed when the author inexplicably chooses to switch the topic to a different character.  The read was frustrating and far from the relaxing endeavor that I seek in my time with a good book. I will most likely continue to read future books in this series because I am stubborn that way, but I would NEVER recommend that anyone start this series.  I am convinced that Mr. Martin is writing for television rather than to move this series along.  One can only hope that that we do not wait another 7 years for the next installment.
PLEASE NOTE THAT I DID NOT ORDER THIS ITEM
I love this story and read online that this version is great for young teens and provides beautiful pictures. However, thats NOT the copy I received. While the copy I received is in great shape, I wish I would have known that I wouldnt be receiving what I thought I had ordered.
does not follow series. Author missed the boat on this continued saga. It is an attempt to sell more in the series. Last one I purchase.
I got only the first 6 chapters in the book and wasn't able to read the rest :(
After reading the first 4 books of this series back to back, I am currently about 1/3 of the way into the 5th. I give up. It is not often that I do not finish a book, so I do not take this lightly. But as other reviewers have said, this book and series is going nowhere. It's a shame. I very much enjoyed the 1st book and even the second. But after that it has all been down hill and a waste of time. I give up reading chapters about characters, wanting to know what happens next to them and then finding out the storyline doesn't even appear again in the book or the next one for that matter. This was a series that started out so strong and has lost so many of it's readers.  Sorry, George R.R. Martin, but we are just not interested anymore.
The first book in this series, the actual 'Game of Thrones', was incredibly interesting. It was a whole new world, with complex and well-developed characters. It was a world of wonder, of legend and of horror. Game of Thrones got me from its first page.  Then came the second book. And I thought... Meh. Then the third book. MEH. The fourth book. "Oh Lord, I hope the fifth is better than this ****!". And the fifth book...  A Dance with Dragons is one of the worst books I have EVER read in my life. More than a thousand pages long, and NOTHING happens. I really don't know what Martin was thinking when he decided to write this book.  Okay, after the first book we already had clues that the series was not going anywhere, but one couldn't help but hope that such an incredible writer would be able to produce something good after so much time.  Guess what? This book can't deliver.  In fact, when I say that NOTHING HAPPENS in this book, I really mean it. The characters just wander around, CLEARLY filling pages. I don't know why would any editor publish this kind of work.  I am probably not the only one, but I SHALL NOT buy the other two books, if they ever get released. This is simply one of the worst written works I've had the misfortune to read.  Take this from a former fan: don't waste your money on this.
Never got it
This is not the complete book. This is only the first part. Super annoying since I did not see it anywhere in the description.  The book it self is wonder but this copy is a waste of your money.
I don't know about you, but one of the reasons I got a kindle was that on-line books were cheaper.  The paperback is selling for 9.99 but the kindle is 14.99.  I will wait thank you very much.
Cannot figure out why this story is moving so slowly.  Am convinced Martin does not know the meaning of the word 'conclusion.'  The story continues to move at a snail's pace with no end in sight.  And (hope this is not a spoiler) in A Feast for Crows we followed the travels of Samwell to Oldtown....that entire story line is repeated in 'Dragons' beginning with their taking leave of Castle Black.  And now I understand there is a 6th book in the making.  I feel I am being duped. The saga of the Song of Ice and Fire should be renamed "The Neverending Story."
*AUDIOBOOK* QUALITY REVIEW - READ BY ROY DOTRICE:  Few months ago thought I would, instead of re-read the series, listen to it.  So I duly got all 5 books on audio and loaded them on my iPod.  They were great companions for long walks and hikes and fishing ventures and what have you.  Good quality, no complaints, transported me to Westeros as well as can be expected.  At least the first 4 books, where I had the good fortune to get the versions read by Roy Avers and John Lee, did.  Then I got to audiobook 5, A Dance With Dragons, read by Roy Dotrice, and... I don't know what genius decided to change readers, but it was a ginormous brain f*rt.  All the characters sound like they're the age of Aemon Targeyan, if he had a thick Scottish accent.  All.  16 year old Daenarys?  Sounds like a 90 year old Scott with throat cancer imitating what he misremembers women to have sounded like.  Pre-teen Bran?  Sounds like a 90 year old Scott whining.  Cercei?  Sounds like a 90 year old Scott male in one sentence, then a 90 year old Scott drag queen the next, and back and forth between the two in that vein.  And conversations between characters?  Forget about it!  Audio doesn't have quotation marks, and G.RR Martin doesn't do a lot of "then Bran said '...'" or "'...' said Jon".  In prior books the readers got around that by changing tone and pitch when switching from character to character.  This book? No change in tone or pitch or anything to let you know that the speaker changed.  It's just one jumble of an old gravelly voiced Scott, and most of the time the listener has to guess from context who is talking.  I hope there's another audio version coming out, read by either Roy Avers or John Lee - or anybody else for that matter.  If you're buying the audiobook, do yourself a favor and avoid the version read by Roy Dotrice.
Tolkien had it right. No matter how grand the tale, it can (and should) be told in three books. Any more, and it's just fluff, meant to part the book buying public and their money. This book and the previous book are proof of that. Absolute rubbish. Don't waste your time. Nothing much happens. The action could have been summarized in 50 pages.  At least have the decency to pull steel while you're robbing us George.
You know a book is bad when most of  it describes food,people relieving themselves, deviant sex and a ruler who only wants to bed a secondary character nobody cares about. As other reviewers have noted a lot of the book is focused on characters moving from point A to point B with detailed descriptions of the scenery .That's unfortunate considering how these journeys were dealt with in the first three books. In Book 1 , Tyrion travels to winterfell  , then goes to the wall , then back to king's landing ,get's captured and goes to the vale. He later escapes , fights robb stark's armies and goes off to king's landing by the end of the book .We were introduced to locations and characters that would play a big role in later books and my interest never waned since the character never overstayed his welcome in any one location . Oh and  the plot advanced as well , we learned more about tyrion , his past , his family history and the story was better for it , here we learn that tyrion ponders on the question that haunts most philosophers , " Where do whores go", and that's it . At the start of this book , we are led to believe that he will join dany in mereen ,but he never even reaches her after traveling for a THOUSAND pages. This was an author who was bold enough to kill Ned Stark. Now he brings characters back from the dead in every other chapter . Sure it wasn't mentioned explicitly that theon died in book 2 , but we assumed he did and were glad that he got his comeuppance. Now he is back , a broken man with fewer toes and teeth rhyming like it's nobody's business. Dany was supposed to be a badass .She is the mother of dragons who she brought to life by burning a witch alive and walking  into the fire. Now all she wants to do is bump ugly with Dario while her kingdom falls to bits , her dragons wild and uncontrollable ,and with no plans to go to king' landing anytime soon. By the way the title of the book is DANCE WITH DRAGONS . Where  are they? As mentioned above , Dany finds it difficult to control her dragons and so decides to lock them up in the beginning of the book . Near the end, yes a thousand pages later they show up again and before we can read more about them , the story ends . Whether they dance or not is left to the reader's imagination. I am still not sure if winter has officially arrived in  westeros but am sure we will learn about it in the next book which might never be released . The others , the wights , Brienne's  one word , all the good bits which i thought i would i read about are not here. The sad thing is , I got into the fantasy genre after reading the first four books. I liked the fourth book as well although Brienne's chapters were dull. Now the author releases this bilge. The FIVE star reviews are bogus . Do not get yourselves fooled into buying this by reading those reviews. Start with the three star reviews and work yourself down from there , and if you are still interested , sure go for it . As longtime readers will attest this series has lost it's way and it's possible that it will never regain it's previous peaks.
If you are looking for a 400+ page children's book narrated by an unenthusiastic female robot...  LOOK NO FURTHER...YOU HAVE FOUND IT!!!
George:  If you run out of ideas, please don't just rehash some of your prior "Kings" drafts and call it a new book. Same old same old here. What were you thinking? Did your publisher dump a truck load of money on your driveway and asked for SOMETHING, ANYTHING. And you pulled out some of your notes and gave us the previous book rewritten. This is terrible stuff for a good writer. I think I've just lost interest, so somewhere in the next five or eight years when the next one comes out, I think I just don't care anymore. I'll have forgotten it all anyway.  I feel like I was had.
Greetings,  The book is fabolus, that once i finally get the book delivered as payed for. This has yet to happen.  Ive baught the series that comes out before this book with great succsess and was hopefull for another. But, the lack of delivery has ruined all my belife in amazon, posten and further shopping as a customer from Norway.  I will not acsept this shipping as a natural delay (delivered in Oslo 7.september and still not shipped to destination town Tromso). I will refuse to negotiate with a handler like Posten/Bring as their handling with me as a customer has been under serious critisim earlier and continues to show as not a quality service.  This delay has ment my girl never got her proper birthday present and that i will not (unless changed handler i Norway) buy from Amazon again. This is not Amasons fault i understand. But, again Bring/Posten will not be my preferd shipping in the future and my international handlings/buys will be with dealer able to provide other means of transport.  I ask that Amazon and Bring sit down and show why in the year 2012 (mail from Norways capitol need more then 1-2days) when what ive payed for is within 1-4days.  In short forget me as customer if bring/posten.no is involved. all the best from north norway
The first two books were interesting. In the third book he killed off a lot of the main characters, then brought in new characters. This made the fourth book unbearably boaring! In the 5th book he lost the plot completely!!! He's clearly just milking it! Sooooo many loose threads and no going forward with anything. Im done with it!! He won't be able to write a good ending with the mess he's made now!!! It could have been so good, but he messed it up completely!
I had no problem until I realized that this isn't the whole book. I have read the information and can't tell why the whole book isn't there.
I am so over these books.  I am almost positive that he wrote this without an outline, it wanders.  Martin is at best a mediocre talent and this book will completely cure your insomnia.
This book ended at chapter 9. It kept leading me to the audio addition, but that's not what I wanted. I downloaded the classic edition instead. You need to correct this.
This book has no line breaks. The cover is pixelated like they copied a picture off google images. It's a waste of your money and time.
This seems like an illegal printing of this book.  The margins and font on the interior are very small and crooked in spots. There is no proper copyright, publisher page, nor table of contents... The story looks like it is all there though...
Very disappointed!  Was going to give as a gift but defective.  The print bleeds through to the next page so it looks a mess.  The paper used for the pages must b too thin.  Husband threw away the packaging b/4 I inspected so can't even return it.  Total loss.
I was led to believe that this is the last book of the series. If so, I would not recommend this book/series. Basically it just ends and leaves those still alive just hanging with no real resolution. I feel like I got pinked by the author. No more of his books for me.
I decided not to read this because of the reviews. The 5 star reviews didn't make me want to read it. The 1 star reviews convinced me that I wouldn't enjoy it.  I read the first 4 books, and #4 even though it was readable, was not a page turn-er. My advice? Read the summaries of what happens, then find some other author to read.
This series DOES NOT qualify George Martin as "the American Tolkien" - a quick review might more accurately say "a book of bad menus, weak plots, plenty of fill to disturb the flow of what little story there is, and overweening characters that are impossible to identify with unless you live your life on a teenage page of Facebook". If you're a reader who thinks Robert Jordan lost his way with the Wheel of Time series, (or may be his editors were milking the money) don't read this book.
After page 4 (which is really the send page), every page is upside down and backwards.  And the text runs of the page.  - So you cannot read the book - it is useless.  And there were no return options. A total ripoff - it appears to be pirated, and very poorly.
If we did not have descriptions of every morsel of food and how it was seasoned/prepared, a fashion catalog of what each person was wearing including any costume changes for all individuals even if they just walked through a scene as well as the complete ancestry.com family tree of the maids, pages, and grooms....this book would be a short story.
This is only the first portion of the book.
words are continuously run together making the reader confused
I pretty much agree with most of the 1 star folks.  I think George is jumping the shark at this point.
As much as I loved A Game of Thrones, liked A Clash of Kings and A Storm of Swords, I disliked this book  Also hated A Feast for Crows.  Self-indulgent, wandering purple prose going nowhere, a total waste of time.  If you're hoping for some resolution for the characters you've grown to love and hate, forget it.  They are all just left in limbo.  Martin should have stopped while he was ahead because this definitely left a bad taste, a feeling he just spewed it out to make some more money.
To begin with i must confess something. I didn't read this book! Why? Because i stopped reading A feast for crows half way through. I loved the 3 first books which was bloody and fun to read, in book 4 it all became stuck in a quagmire. I've been reading Robot Jordans WOT series (at least to book 10... i think it was) and can tell u book 4 in George Martin (not even going to mention the ridiculous double rr) set off all the internal alarms, i saw the writing on the wall and stopped half way through book 4. Oh, did i repeat myself, not unlike G.M. then i guess.  A friend of mine own a book store and i asked him 4 years ago if he heard more about the release date of A dance with dragons, since G.M. already had finish writing it (yeah, right he had). My friend checked it up and next time we met, 1 month later he told me: Don't bother waiting, I've checked with some publisher in US and they said it won't be out for years yet.  When i read all this review i know two things for sure: 1. I did right for stopping at 3.5 book/s, since this series will be going on until G.M. dies (he don't look like a healthy guy to me). 2. He don't care at all for what other people think of his work. He is a vain person and for those of you who don't believe me just take a look at his homepage.  Sorry people! That this book contains no plot movements/ developments comes as no shock to me. My best advice would be to read something else, there are lots of other giftet authors out there.  For those of you who will stick to the series: don't come and say i didn't warn you;)  P.S. Some of you who write reviews here are really good and i enjoy reading them, thank you:D  P.P.S. Tolkien by the way manage to write lotr in just 3 volumes. ;)
This is my first book review so I am not inclined to pull punches. After an incredible wait, what a colossal waste of time and money. This last installment was a huge disappointment...if anything the writing style has deteriorated to a mass confusion of characters and direction. At this point, I could care less who lives, dies or just disappears so I will NOT be waiting for the next book.
This copy has runtogether words in almost every sentence!!!
This version was very difficult to read.  A lot of the words were run together.
Not a fan of the format
I read all 5 books of this series and there is no comparison to "Lord of the Rings", as LOTR had a point. There is no comparison to this body of work and literature in general, because literature in general has a plot. There is no comparison to an EPIC anything because the protagonist(s) in an EPIC anything aren't killed off in order to end the book or to illustrate that all struggle is pointless because death is inevitable. Reading these books has been a monumental waste of my time.
The series started with such promise, but quickly degenerated into a never-ending cash cow for the author and publisher. The really sad thing is that when he is writing an actual story line, it's well-crafted and engaging, even gripping at times. But between those few nuggets are endless pages of trivial nonsense, the heraldry of insignificant knights, what foods are laid out at every meal, page after page of nonsensical detail that contribute nothing and blur the tale. All this makes the individual books too long to come to any resolution, and the specific characters have their stories chopped into slivers, scattered across the books, so even if you start to connect with someone in particular you lose interest before finding another chapter for them. Characters enter the tale, get abandoned for long stretches, often die (sometimes just briefly mentioned by some other character), and more characters are brought in to replace them. The result - so far - is a series of disjointed, plodding narratives with some hint of a story line in the background. Give it up before wasting any more time and money in what seems to be a bottomless pit. There are so many good books out there, don't spend your time on these.
Jordan, whoops I mean Martin, has trailed off and obviously turned his attention to the cash cow that this series has become.  This is clear from the difference between the last two books and the first 3.  With all the money and distractions coming in from the HBO show, I have no confidence that this series will wrap up anytime soon or with any closure.  I won't buy another book in this series and I won't watch another episde of the HBO show.  Splitting the hardcover into two more books was the last straw.  This guy will be dead before he finishes the series.
I tried extremely hard to read this. I really did. I had attempted this once when I was about 12 or 13, and much like then, I find it to be precious and saccharine. I can't make it past the opening, when their mother reads their father's letter and they all make promises to be better children. This story may have some sort of literary or historical importance, but I think it's just too sticky-sweet for me.
Nearly every sentence has words that are run together and reading this version is NO FUN.
I invested my time and money in all 5 books, only to have the characters I cared about, killed or thought so and rarely heard from again.   Storylines were not completed and ended with someone killing the ones in power and taking over, that you never knew was alive. BOO, HISS   The first 3 books were good, the next 2 were not
I read all the books in this series up to this point, but I will not read farther.  It has just become too boring. I actually just quit this book after reading 80% of it.  It seems that the object of the author at this point is to prolong the series, not develop (or finish) the story.  I feel tht I'm being manipulated for profit; so I won't participate.
Well it's my fault for not reading the description carefully. I was just clicking around adding books to my library. But what kind of ridiculous format is 8.5x11?! I'm going to have to find time to return this. Or burn it.
The back of the book shows it cost 2.99 why I need to pay about 4for it?
I started reading the series after watching the first year of Game of Thrones on HBO. The books were as exciting as the series. I had purchased the four book package and when I finished it, there were too many gaps left open with no path for the reader to follow. Mr. Martin explained that there is a book 5 coming that is actually a parallel to book 4, as there was too much information to be presented.  I definitely agreed that there were way too many holes and characters that you care about left hanging at the end. So, I looked forward to book 5, A Dance with Dragons.  I have to say it was one of the worst endings to anything I have ever read. It was like " I have to finish this, but don't know where to take it. Let's just kill off everyone and throw in more people!". Except all the new characters are so disgusting you can't wait for the book to end. Characters that were so important to this series are dead and others that book 4 indicated were killed, seem to walk off happily together in book 5.  I did see in the HBO Series, some movement in the second season that deviated from book 2. If there is any hope left, the producers will save Game of Thrones. If they stay on the path of the books, I fear all is lost. Maybe that is what Mr. Martin is trying to convey.
What the........?  Did the author get bored with the story?  Did he decide his readers were suckers for sticking with the series and decided to stick it to them? His commentary after book four mentioned that his work on the fifth book was so long that he had to cut it back.  Perhaps that's where the rest of the story is: on the cutting room floor. Why not have two more volumes and complete the many story lines he had so laboriously created instead of leaving us with a half-finished final book?  Clearly, I'm disgusted and disappointed.
Given the amount of time i put into reading the first 4 books I simply had to read this. What a massive dissapointment. Random characters that have no point to the story and many many loose endings. Martin is clearly capable of getting the reader to either love or loath a character but then decides to simply finish the plot line with a half baked excuse to stop. The book left me with a feeling of being conned and ripped off. Martin - you should have wraped this up after book three - it's clear that he sold out to HBO and thus leaves the reader feeling that he has wasted his time.  Reading this reminded me of watching LOST - great to begin with but it tails off and has a stupid ending leaving you thinking - why did i bother??
I love books 1-4 I couldn't put them down. But have to say that this last book looks like was written by another author or Martin was tired to write. I'm really disapointed !! Compared to the other books its overpriced by the quality that we find inside. If there is more books I'm not sure that I'll buy them.
Who are these people writing "just as I remembered it"?  Just as you remembered the first half of the book, I guess?  This book does not cover the full text of Little Women.  It doesn't cover Meg getting married and having children.  It doesn't cover Jo going on to have a career.  Most importantly, for those of us who know and love the book, it doesn't cover Beth dying.  My young daughter chose this out of her bookshelf to read today, and read it all the way through.  Afterwards, I asked her questions about what had happened.  What happened to Beth?  "Uh, she likes cats? She got sick and got better."  WHAT?  I went back and read it through myself, and realized it doesn't cover the last half of the original book.  Yet I guess this book is "just as you remembered it" if you weren't capable of reading the second half of the book.  Or if you think seven-year-olds are too young to deal with people dying.  I'm only now hoping the Usborne books we bought her on history aren't similarly abbreviated.  "Napoleon" maybe ends on Elba, before Waterloo?  Elisabeth I ends maybe halfway through her reign? "Little Women" is a terrible approximation of the real book and also underestimates the emotional maturity of the average seven-year-old.
I don't understand why they made this book so small. The cover illustration is wonderful, but if they made it a similar size to traditional hardcovers it wouldn't have to be so thick and hard to hold! I'm really disappointed.
Martin must have been in a trance when he wrote Book 5, I would advise anyone to skip the read. Purchased from amazon, never again.
Buried in this mass of BS is a compelling story. Wading through the nonsense destroys the experience. By the time the character reappears you have forgotten who did what to whom. I found myself flipping through all descriptions of sigils of the various houses and the phony folk songs. I wish he would leave that nonsense out and focus on the tale he trying to tell. He really needs a good editor.
After investing so much time in the 4 book set, I decided to ignore the negative reviews... I wish that I had heeded the warnings. Fully 65% of this book is a waste of space. Often, an entire paragraph is devoted to nothing more than listing the 20-30 dishes in a meal, or an extensive listing of names for people in a room (many of which play no part in the story line). I do not know if it is ego or a need to pad the book, but I DO NOT recommend this book at all.
I absolutely loved the first book.  Now I am kicking myself for falling into the trap of this series.  I can;t take the abject misery that each book stacks on the one before it. Anyone with a scrap of decency gets mauled as the story continues.  You are left with the despicable characters.  Eventually it gets so bad that you start routing for the least loathsome of them just so you stop being disappointed when the newest character you try to like gets crushed by the game.
Story is classic but narrator is classically bad.
Not as terrible as book 4, but a close second. What I have noticed is that you can skip entire chapters and will have missed nothing. Or just read the first and the last 2 or 3 pages of each chapter to keep up with the story that has become less interesting as it unfolds.
Spoiler alert. Pros: Cersei's walk.  Stone people on river.  Warging in the beginning of the book with promise of Others.  Take down of some of the Freys.  Lord Manderly, now that's what I read these books, for.  What an interesting guy in such a horrible good way. Cons: No one gets anywhere, everybody is in mid journey to get somewhere. Not enough of the dragons, poor dragons.  Dany becomes wimpy, boring, and is in love with a boor. Bran turns into a tree, but for what reason?  No Jaimie, or explanation of why Brienne shows up. Tyrion has a lot to do with traveling with another little person, but nothing comes of it.  Jon fights with everybody and does nothing but get stabbed in between organizing foodstuffs, and talking to lots of people. And lots more.  Too many people get killed off, only to come back.  Arya continues to get used to killing people.  Same stuff.  Sansa and Littlefinger - not much happening, either.  Seemed to be full of fillers of Dorne descriptions and the new Ageon.  Meerenese country and people so boring.  Lots of descriptions of food and traveling and eliminating wastes from the body. Some violent and disgusting sex, which seem like degrading s&m.  In great detail.  For no good reason to further the plot or show character development.   Someone should edit this man. Dance and Feast could have been one short volume, and something might happen in Winds.  If it ever does get written.   Don't buy this.  Just get it from the library and skim.
I have nothing more to add to what other disappointed readers have already pointed out. This does not seem to be the work of the same genius who penned the first three books An absolute waste of time Have no further expectations out of this author Left a bitter taste in the mouth
So glad I only started these this year, no way would I have bothered to wait decades for these books.
Should have stopped at book 3.  By the time I got to book 5 I was excited to see an ending to this epic, it didn't happen, some new characters addeded, but the story line got old. I was disappointed .  Can't figure what. Aulthor Martin  is thinking, another 5 books? Or just no idea to give ending to the story
Wow- where to start?  Well , at least I did start to read this book. The problem was it kept putting me to sleep. I did enjoy Martin's first three books but its been a fast train wreck getting through book 4 and now 5. The author is suffering from attention span deficit. And rambles on and on about the stupidest crap. Considering his deterioration and age this series will never be finished/rectified. I won't be indulging in his works any longer.
There aren't any heroes in this series anymore.  Just a lot of new torture, rape and depravity.  I enjoyed the first two books a lot, the third was mediocre, but the last two are tedious.  It seem's like Martin's only purpose in writing characters who you enjoy is to kill them off in some new betrayal.  Now that I've read this book almost every character that had any honor or dignity has been stabbed in the back.  This series is starting to remind me of Robert Jordan's descent into book after book talking about tea and the color of the sister's dresses, excepting that Martin uses rape and torture instead of tea, and all protagonists dying substitutes for dresses.  Feels like repetitive filler throughout the book.
I loved, loved, loved this book.  I could not put it down.  I can't wait for the next one. Any book with Daeny, Rob and direwolves...great, great, great
SMALL FONT! Beware! I'm sure the story is fine, however, you may need a magnifying glass in order to read it.  This edition caused my daughter to get a headache trying to read it, because the font is so small.
The format of the paperback version of this book is awful. I should have paid more attention when purchasing it but I didn't realize they ever sold books this way! It is the size of a magazine and each page has 3 columns of text on it, which is not the most comfortable way to read. Looking back I see that it states the style here so it really is my fault for not reading into the details and I will look more closely when buying books in the future now that I know that they may be sold in this awful style.
I don't have a well-versed couple of paragraphs for this final book in this series. All I can say is I read the reviews before I bought it...said I would NOT buy it...and then I did...and I should not have. i am only 65% thru the book and at this point...I just want it to end so i can move on to something else. Heed what ur gut is telling u and don't buy it, no matter how much you want to find out about Cersei and Dany....who is a twittering fool who has not accomplished her mission so far.
Let me start by saying.. I thoroughly enjoyed books 1-3 and I continue to have high hopes for where this series will go.  At least where it will go if it is ever finished.  I can't tell you how sad I was to find this was the book GRRM spent 6 years writing and developing.  I was lucky enough to get into the books late and only had to wait 3 years for A Dance with Dragons.  After suffering through A Feast For Crows I was absolutely stoked to get back to my favorite characters.  Finally - back to the action in the north and the witty dwarf.  This book was almost a thousand pages and I can sum it up in just a few words:  Jon gets stabbed, Tyrion takes a boat trip and fornicates with another dwarf, Daenerys has a lot of sex with creepy men, Aegon lands in the seven kingdoms.  GRRM seems to delight in pissing off his readers.  Don't get too comfortable with a character or begin to think of them fondly - he's just going to kill them off.  (By the way I loved his lack of sentimentality at first, but it's starting to get ridiculous.)  Don't expect him to progress the plot in any meaningful way.  This book has more filler than a RNC position paper.  I guess more than anything I was disappointed to read a thousand pages that could have probably been condensed into 500.  I can't see how he can finish the story in just two more volumes, but anyway at the rate he's going it will only take 12 years to find out.  The book is so frustrating that trying to describe it here leaves me almost apoplectic.  I would caution you to lower your expectations, and even to wait until the next book before reading this monstrosity.  You may find it much more enjoyable than I did.  Here's hoping GRRM will make a little more effort and stop writing tedious novels that more closely resemble Robert Jordan's WoT than A Song of Ice and Fire.
I have invested considerable time and money in the first four books of this series. I really enjoyed the first three, but the fourth book was a disappointment . Despite the negative reviews for the fifth book, I was still prepared to purchase it. UNTIL I saw the price tag.  $14.99 for an e-book? Really?  I vote with my wallet and until the price is reduced Random House can go pound sand. I bet they are the mummers that convinced Martin to stretch this farce to seven books to increase their profit$$$  I still love Amazon.com and I wish they had more control over pricing.
This illegal price fixing which has been forced down our throat is sickening.  The actual book is almost as bad.  The first 4 were pretty good, but few folks will even be able to get through this garbage.  I hope the Government fines the publishers and puts a few in prison - now that would be a very happy ending!
I love this book but the format is horrible! It came in a large sized book and read like a magazine with all the chapters squished together. Do not buy this copy/format or you will be disappointed!!
What a complete disappointment, to slog through all the books and Houses and travails, etc. and then to have an ending that resolved so little and left so much hanging.  It was as if he just got tired and said, " OK, Let's just stop here, kill off a few before we go and leave the rest to their imagination".  Very unsatisfying!
I have been reading the reviews of this book and am amazed at the volume of wording in the responses. It is clear George pulled his readers in and we invested in the journey. Unfortunetly, Book 4 started to unravel the story lines and now book 5 has it completely lost. Their are few characters left to care about and it seems he is just going to kill them off anyway. The story lines are random, lengthy and uninteresting.  I am giving up at this point with zero interest in following the journey through George cluttered and unkept mind. It is too bad he has left his readers for his own self indulgence.  It really is just a mess.
Honestly I feel fleeced, the story has gone sour, it has no motion to a conclusion, find another series of books, this is a rip off and waist of time.
The story is great but printing sucks. No formatting, no introduction, no table of contents. Just an overall sketchy book. I feel like I got some sort of black market copy. It doesn't match up to the audio book. I'm sending my husband to Half Price Books to get a copy so my kid can do his school tonight. Ugh.
Did not enjoy this book at all.
Considering how much I liked the first three books, this was tremendously disappointing.  Not only did many of the ongoing story lines founder in book 5, but the new characters added nothing of interest.  It was a struggle to make it through to the end.  I'm still baffled by the number of story lines that seem to have been left hanging in the air:  Brienne of Tarth, Asha Greyjoy, Jamie Lannister, Sansa Stark, Arya Stark, Tyrion Lannister, Sam Tarly, on and on.  And many of the story arcs that did reach a conclusion were abrupt and pointless, as if someone had yelled 'Cut' on a bad Saturday Night Live scene.  Awful.  So bad that I wonder how anyone could have honestly written a 5-star review here.  I wish I would have had the good sense to listen to the bad reviews before buying the book...
It is really sad. The whole series started of so goood with a wide range of charachters and a daring, to kill a some of the supposed main ones off. And then.... Adding more characters without purpose, without meaning... Just more. No direction. The author confesses he struggled with last books, well... Stuggled and failed. And it was a complete waste of time. For him as a writer and for me as a reader. Despite really enjoying the first two books, now I'd say don't bother. It is a true dissapointment. Mr Martin thanks his editors, well - I blame them for doing a poor job. They didn't support him enough and in the end published crap that is not worthy of the first books.  It is just sad.
I hate you, George RR Martin. You are an evil, sadistic little man, aren't you?  First I had to go through Feast for Crows without my favorite characters. I actually thought they were going to be right around the corner up until the last page when - surprise! I find out they were moved to the next book. Okay. "No problem," I said. "I'll wait, Georgey Porgey. But it better be good."  But it wasn't. Oh, how it wasn't. (He made this girl cry.)  There seems to be a huge misconception that this is actually reading material, judging by how the average rating isn't 1 star.  How does someone start a series so magnificently and then deteriorate so magnificently quickly?  The problem here is that NOT ENOUGH HAPPENS. Phrases are repeated until you want to smash your book or reading device with a hammer. Tyrion keeps "taking a piss."  SPOILER ALERT? DOES IT MATTER? Tyrion spends the entire book just /traveling/ to where Daenerys is. At first you think, cool! Daenerys gets to meet Tyrion! But then you just forget that that was ever his destination. And Cersei? I think she got her comeuppance in this book, but really all I remember is where do whores go? You know nothing, Jon Snow. I'mma take a piss off the boat now.
Sadly, he's captured your imagination and is holding it hostage, dipping in your pockets to get more. He will write five more, and thousands of pages of irrelevant details before he says I am done with this story. No way, pl. don't compare him with Tolkien who told a really good tale -- as neat and round as a ring, spun very effectively, and there were conclusions. Here its a ramble. After five books and thousands of pages you get nothing. I just finished the fifth book, and it will be my last as I have managed to bring this long yarn "a long yawn" indeed to much needed conclusion in my own way "Dany wins the FIVE kingdoms, with the help of her dragons, and the bastard Jon, who is reunited with his step-family, Dany marries Jon and they live happily ever after..
Ugh
No soft cover book available, maybe someday the book industry will care about fans of books and actually release the softcover at initial release so people that do not like hard cover can actually share in the story..
I was disappointed that the main characters were left hanging.  No conclusion to any of their stories.  I wonder what the wait till book six?
Only good point of this book , his writing skills are still sharp as ever. Now bad points, I don't pay money to read about nothing happening. Plot doesnt go anywhere. There is no character development or movement in the timeline. Coming to violence , he must really have a dark and dreary mind if he cannot write a single chapter of hope, of unsullied dreams. I am tired of reading about his endless sufferings that the good guys have to suffer. By trying to make his bad guys so bad he is making them look like fools. & he is forgotten about the main threat from behind the Wall. There is no appearance of them in the entire novel. I was compelled to write such a scathing review of him because he is a well-establised behaving like he can get away anything. One star is because of the beautiful writing.
I really liked books 1-3 of this series.  Book four was alright, but not as good as the first 3.  I highly recommend not purchasing or reading "A Dance with Dragons".  While it does...eventually...move the story along, there is absolutely no climax and George R.R. Martin seems to kill of characters at random to make up for the fact that the climax is missing.  This reminds me of the tv show "Lost".
Such promise in A Game of Thrones.  So much anticipation in A Clash of Kings.  The warning signals came for me in A Storm of Swords: the ratio of story versus "rich fabric" was reversed; and it was perpetuated in A Feast of Crows.  I was prepared to abandon the series right then, but didn't Martin promise to make it right in A Dance With Dragons?  Instead, Martin wrote as if he had no idea where his runaway project was going. Oh, and the HBO screenplay is still worse.
Okay, you get a tiny bit of movement in this one, but most of that is accomplished by killing off characters gratuitously, particularly those who have behaved honorably. And that's it.  No wonder he writes so slowly! He's great at starting things off...and very bad at keeping them going. This book rehashes a lot of previous material, to the extent of copying whole paragraphs from Book 4. Frankly, I found myself frequently bored and finally frustrated. Having R.R. for middle initials is not enough to make one an author comparable to Tolkien.
No
What a terrible showing from one of the most instinctively gifted writers in the genre. This is not a novel but a collection of short stories; unfortunately unlike great short story anthologies these stories don't  find closure. Making the whole thing a confused mess. I think RR Martin is tired of the series and can't find it's heart anymore, something he implies in the author's note. He's got the talent, maybe it's time to start a fresh story altogether, one that he can fall in love with again.
This review addresses only the quality of the audiobook, not the book itself.  Many audiobook fans vehemently hate the audiobook of "A Feast for Crows," the first in the series not read by Roy Dotrice.  I thought it was fine, personally.  With the release of "A Dance with Dragons" on audiobook, Dotrice re-recorded "A Feast for Crows."  Don't bother with either.  Dotrice didn't listen to his recordings of the first three books, and his accent shifts noticeably in this CD set for Daenerys and Tyrion.  Daenerys now sounds like a Welsh washerwoman.  It's terrible.  I couldn't get through a full listen because I was so irritated by her new voice.  I'd recommend not bothering to purchase this set, particularly given how expensive it is.  Random House needs to re-record the Daenerys sections, at a minimum.  A better option would be a recording that featured women reading the female viewpoints.  But Dotrice's lack of professionalism in maintaining consistency between books is appalling, and completely ruins this audiobook.
I do not understand how writer, editor, etc., could think that this 960 pages of wondering drivel can be of interest to a reader. There is no story just a continuing soap opera. Myriads of characters, tomes of wondering story line, no ending in sight, etc. The ability of the author to write is not at issue here. It is rather the problem. All of his books are too long and worse, as stated above have no enidng, no real diretion. It feels as if he is writing the story line as he goes by chapter. Maybe he will write a concluding novel in leass than a 1000 pages and have a true ending???
Everyone else has already said it and much better than I could ever write.  I've never been so disappointed in a book/series as George RR Martin's. So many strong characters have been lost along with their stories.  What a mess.  I hope HBO can improve upon these books and give us a successful and satisfactory conclusion.
This isn't a color book! When I did a search for color books this was a choice. I was excited because I want this type of pictures. But it's a BOOK NOT A COLOR BOOK. Some color books don't let you see inside and I took the search for granted. I won't depend on Amazon's search separations! I hate to do returns and I was too late on another book similar to this one! It's makes me upset that this has happened.
Bought the first four books on my kindle 3 weeks before ADWD came out .... couldn't even finished A Feast of Crows because it was so bad. The tough thing to swallow is the fact that it took more than a decade to some up with crap like this ... He's trying very hard beat Jordan. Jordan had one whole book which covers 1 day for the timeline and I think GRMM is trying his darndest to see if he can do the same ... In book 7 there will be one paragraph of the white ones hoards coming through the wall and we will have our epilogue ....
A few months ago when I started this series I was sure this set would be something I wanted on my bookshelves.  Game of Thrones was definitely a five star book in my opinion, but the books have been slowly deteriorating, A Feast for the Crows was decent, but A Dance with Dragons has been such a slow read.  There are too many points of view, I feel detached from most of the characters because there are so many, I am also a little paranoid to get too attached to any character, I feel like the author could kill them off at any moment.  Okay, now I just want to rant.  I thought all of Westeros would have had to come together by now to battle the Others or Whites or whatever the boogeyman in the north is. Is that going to be the eventual progression?  Honestly I think that with how slow the author has become about putting the books out he will be dead before anything interesting actually happens.  I mean, how many years did it take to put out this book, like 5.  I just don't want to invest more time if the next book is going to come out in another 5 years and NOTHING will happen!  Did anyone else feel like George must have been hungry or eating himself as he wrote this, there seemed to be a lot of discussion about food in this book.
The first 3 books were really great, then it went down hill from there.  First off, lets get to the point!  People are still running around and all the main characters are dying!!!!  Why start a series if there is no ending??? As far as I can see there is NO logical ending to this now and I won't even both with any further books or the series.  My opinion...don't read any of them, you will just end up disappointed. If there was a way for me to tell the author to stop smoking crack and fix this story I would.  I would have put zero stars but there was ONE good part to this book and that was Cersi's story line.
I would  have attempted to write a review but I am so exhausted from reading this borefest I cannot. The other reviewers articulate the problem perfectly. Maybe one of you can just finish this story!
It is not that the book is bad per-say it is just full of frivolous side plots, useless ponderings, and pointless details. This would be tolerable if he published one of these a year, but he doesn't. The end effect is you wait five years for half a story that is 950 pages long. Every story line ended with a cliff hanger and no resolution was reached for anyone or anything. It was like he got tired of writing with 50 pages to go and said "f*** it, they can find out in the next book". I suppose we will now need to wait another five years to find out who lives and who dies (2 different characters), which army wins the battle (3 different armies), and if the lost characters return (1 character). For those of you keeping track at home that is 6 story lines that were left as cliff hangers.  I genuinely liked this series, at first. But each book seems to get worse. Not that the plot is bad, or the characters aren't compelling, but to get to those gems you have to wade through pages and pages of drivel. Mr. Martin, please, I beg you, by the old gods and the new, hire a good editor and heed their advice.
I'm done. Jumpy lumpy dumpy dull. All characters blur and bore me now. I give up on the series. Characters now no different from each other.  As useless as the Third book in Titus Groan. Gormenghastly.
Don't bother wasting your time if you fell for the drawn-out teaser that was book Four. None of the characters you were following through the first three books and even into the fourth move along here, so there's no point in reading it. Want to find out what happens to Bran and his siblings? (Jon apparently winds up dead, killed by his inner circle. Same fate as too many other characters, ho hum) The other families? All those yarns at loose ends are just left fluttering.  Yes, that's correct. No satisfying conclusion awaits and about two dozen NEW characters are added instead, as if the author got tired of the old ones from the first four books and rather move along and then wrap up their stories he just ignored them completely. Not sure which is more disgusting, the sloppy and tedious writing or the utter disrespect to the readers he's dragged along through thousands of pages previously only to arrogantly leave hanging...as if we are all going to rush out for his next book to get what we didn't in this one. Sorry. Fool me once, I might try again. But the final two books were so worthless and the quality so lacking, there isn't any point in bothering with another.  Such a shame. These characters and story premise deserved an engaged writer who cared about his craft, not someone just filling pages with the same tediously repetitious situations as if he's tossing darts at a page of the following options: violent and senseless death, introduce new character, boring sex scene, gratuitous violence, introduce new character, implausible escape, introduce new character, or feast scene.
Be careful this is the abridged version! It really should say it's an abridged version on the front cover, it's misleading not to have it. I didn't notice this from the description when I purchased it for my daughter. She started reading it and couldn't get really get interested despite my insistence to give it a shot. She is an avid reader. Only later did I realize upon a closer look that this wasn't the full novel. I took her to the library and she borrowed the full version and loves it.
Loved the first 3 books, tolerated the first half of the 4th (AFfC), absolutely wanted to wipe my nether regions with the latest installment. Shame on the gurm for lying to us back in 2005, telling us that it was alreday done but too large for a single volume. Then churning out some of the worst print I have ever read.  Thanks for nothing, gurm.
I am such fan of George R. R. Martin and I have I expected more of the book six A Dance with Dragons,  and ended to be  very disappointed, what a drag!
This was a 50 cent garage sale copy of Little Women and I am still waiting for my refund over a month later!
Long, miserable slog through a medieval fantasy soap opera.  I like Martin's writing style, but nothing nice ever happens, and I wish I had never picked up the first book.  It reminds me of a brief and embarrassing fling I had with a guy in college.  I kept hanging out with him, thinking something good would happen because he was smart and sort of good looking, but overall it just made me feel bad.  Like Meth for readers.  I keep coming back to it, even though I know it will hurt me.  These books just make me feel bad.  The misogyny is nearly unbearable.  The sex is usually horrific (the majority being rape, incest, prostitution, and pedophilia). The most I can hope for is that something bad happens to a character I don't like because at least there is that grim satisfaction of having a horrifically, evil character become disemboweled, decapitated, hung, burned, humiliated, mutilated, or otherwise writhing in some kind of agony.  Schadenfreude at its best. Of course this happens even to the characters I do like. Martin went all Julius Caesar on my favorite character in this particular book--Et tu brothers. Plus there are all of the extraneous characters that don't actually further the plot in any meaningful way--I skim a good portion of the books. They are just way, way too long.  I think Martin loves every word, every character, every syllable. It gets a little narcissistic.  staring at that mirror too long isn't going to do anyone any good.  It's like reading 5,000 pages of "Of Mice and Men." Steinbeck mercifully kept it under 200 pages to put us and his characters out of misery.  That and it kept him from repeating his images ad nauseam.  If I hear about any more pissed in small clothes, charred rats leaking blood and grease, or the size and color of any more nipples it will be too soon.  Right now the most I can hope for for Westeros and the other miserable lands on this world is that a giant meteor will come down from the sky and destroy the whole planet--a quick merciful end for us all.  Out of the hundreds of characters in the book, I think there are only two left who I actually like, and one of them is an assassin. Save yourself; don't get drawn into this reeking bog of a series--reeking rhymes with freaking waste of time.  The others take them all.
The one star rating is not for the novel itself, but for the wrong information on book page. The reviews that accompanied this item were confusing, as was some of the "editorial info.". They didn't seem to apply to the items description. So I took a chance and ordered it based on the description of it being in the "children's books"category where it was described as a "children's classic" suitable for age range: 9 - 12 years. I wondered why the page count was so high, especially because several comments were about this being part 1 only of the story. Anyway, this is definitely not a children's version . It is in fact both part 1 and part 2, in a small size edition that is so thick and heavy it's even hard for me to read it comfortably. No illustrations, and the "additional info" is just a few pages at the end. My nine year old can read well above her grade but she's not ready for this, with references to marital love, etc. I'll have to look later for a real children's version. Returning it.
This book was terrible, it took me a month to read it and I am a very fast reader. I have a the same complaints other reviewers have, nothing happens. The only plot point that stuck with me was the rape of a 12 year old girl, and its not that it was good writing, it was so sick I can't get it out of my mind. Seriously, is this book actually up for a Hugo? Because I have some of my own writing from when I was 16 that are better then this garbage, I want a Hugo nomination to. Pass this book and series up, GRRM may not be my B***H but someone needs to let him know that I am not his either, I guess I'll just have to let my wallet tell GRRM that.
A very sad day indeed. Yet another writer going the way of the incredibly boring and long winded Robert Jordan. Even the descriptions are so Jordan like. Mr. Martin, please return to your original writing. i would much rather wait 5 years for another of your well written novels than to plough through a disaster such as A Dance with Dragons. The book was a terrible disappointment.
Disgusted by the trend started by Jordan all those years ago to create the unending series. And now Martin continues the process. How can you really have a voice or a point of view if you just keep babbling on and on?? Finish it even if you give it a lame ending, stop thinking about dollars and more about your craft.  And 4 to 5 years between books, how is that not about money?
I doubt if this book would have helped pass the time while guarding the wall.  Martin should rethink the urging he received to expand on the dragons and Daenery.  I want a book 6 but hope that it will read more like the earlier ones.
i was absolutely sure i had cancelled my pre order for this book after so many delays, either i didn't or amazon snuck it through anyway! but i had invested a lot of time before so when it turned up i thought what the hell - i will never ever look at anything else in this series - life is just too short. self indulgent over detailed descriptions of everything imaginable, making seemingly little progress in such an enourmous book. so many characters i have forgotten half of them and couldn't be bothered to refresh my memory read the cast list which i guess is helpfull even if it is the length of a small novel itself.  promised much in the begining but lost its way  bye
It's been said but....this book is nothing short of a tragedy and a total failure to extend the series in any meaningful direction. Mr. Martin, you have let down your fans spectacularly. I can understand if the filming of the show took your attention away from writing. But in that case, DON'T WRITE!!! Especially if you're going to piss all over your legacy as a great fantasy writer. How do you plan to dig yourself out of this hole? Or are you satisfied with the wonderful books that preceeded this absurd piece of junk?
This is a condensed version. I didn't know the book is 800pages long. Should've known this cheap price can't get you the actual copy
Slow, repetitive, predictable
Don't bother to even read this book. Wait two more and u will still find everything in the same place. I must agree with the other reviews, I too am invested in the series but I have fallen "out of love" with this whole dragged out mess
I cannot say anything new that others have not already said. After waiting a long time, this rambling mess of storylines that go nowhere very,very slowly is truly disappointing. Another review called it "masturbatory self-indulgence" and I think that sums it up perfectly. I have been listening to the audio version, and if it weren't for being a OK time passer in the car, I would not have the energy or inclination to continue to the end. I am nearly finished and cannot see the story has moved forward at all. You know nothing of your fan base, George Martin.
Wow! What a let down. With way too many characters and plots to be entertaining, it just feels like work to try and keep up with it all. The author has carried the style of multiple story lines and points of view to a level I've never seen before (and hope to never see again). By the time he circles back around to a character (usually a half dozen or so chapters later), I've pretty much forgotten what was going on earlier, and not surprisingly, I no longer care very much.  What a relief it was to read another book after this (Hunger Games) where one chapter led into the next! I wanted to like this book, but it just ended up annoying the hell out of me. I won't be buying any future books in this series, just not worth the time and effort.
This is a terrible, so-called, book! Printed by someone who crowded together all the words from TWO books, with no spacing, bad, uneven margins, can't read the words in the gutters of either side, a HEAVY, unpleasant paperback book.... To me that's a BAD thing to do to a classic story I wanted to share with my granddaughters. Granted, it wasn't expensive, but this is a cover and numerous pages of words with no style, no spacing, no skill from any kind of printer's craft. The author's words are there, but it's not easy to focus on a whole sentence, let alone read the story. The book itself is UGLY.
He started out the series so well and each book gets less and less interesting.  You can tell that the end will be fantastic, but it seems that the more chapters he adds the further he gets from the end.  One thing that was great about the series before was that things happened.  If 1/3 of this book was simply removed and another 1/3 was edited to half the size, you could have a decent book (3.5 to 4 stars) that was half the size of this one. Maybe George R. R. Martin will have a new editor step in and help him shrink the next book to remove all of the chaff.  The biggest problem is that the author appears to think we need to see every side of everything going on.  This means he gives chapters to people that add nothing to the overall quality of the story.  Perhaps their perspective would be useful in a history book, but they don't do anything for a novel.  Seeing the perspective of the "bad guys" is a technique that can add value, but he goes way beyond reason.  Characters in a novel need to be either likable or interesting.  Chapters aren't very good when the characters are neither.
When I was in the 7th grade my english teacher had the entire class write a book together.  One student would write a chapter then the next student would pick it up and write the next chapter so forth and so on.  The plot was quickly lost and main characters were killed off at random and others created out of thin air.  Our book did have a conclusion though so I would have given it two stars just for leaving the reader with a sense of completion. That is what this book reminds me of!  I seriously doubt that this "trilogy" will have any conclusion whatsoever. I don't know for sure if GM even knows what his next book is going to be about and just writes random stuff as he thinks it up filling the book with meaningless fluff.  Unfortunately the plot never gets progressed and the story is just getting too cumbersome to hold my interest.  The older story lines have all but vanished without a trace, like whats the point of giving the Starks these skinchanger gifts if they never influence the plot? Same thing with bran and wierwoods. The first main characters or those that remain I should say are becoming meek and ineffective while the new ones aren't given the background and depth that the previous ones had.  In summation I'm afraid that GM might just be milking this cash cow and losing fans for it all along the way.
I think all the disappointments with the last two books have been spelled out by others rather well. I waited until book 5 to redeem book 4, but after just completing it tonight, I am done. I have to find another series to start now, any suggestions?
Way too long, and only 100 pages worth of good stuff happens. It was a waste of time to read this...
It was s***
I'm sure the book will be great as all the previous books of this series were but I can't read it because the Kindle I purchased will not download it.  I have contacted the help line on a number of occasions and have been told to do certain things which I have done, and they haven't worked.  I am very disappointed because the Kindle doesn't work and the help line could not fix it up for me.  If I had known that the Kindle did not work in Australia I would not have purchased the book, which was to be the first of many.
What a disappointment.  After waiting all these years I found the book I was so looking forwards to reading repulsive.  Instead of the author being so vulgar in places where it wasn't called for, he should have taken the time to develope the story  as he did in his previous books.  This book didn't flow.  It most certainly wasn't a page turner.  Instead I struggled to read it and actually stopped for long periods of time since it failed to hold my interest.  In the future if he writes another book, I will wait for at least a year to find out what others really think of it.  Or even better borrow it from the library to make sure I get my money back from this bomb.
Wow. I am a big GRRM fan and I waited years for this?! First of all after all these years you'd think GRRM would offer a brief synopsis to bring the reader back to where, at least some of the main characters are, plot points etc. But no. You spend almost the whole book trying to figure out what is what and who is who with tons of sub plots and minor characters that just end up being confusing and annoying. The result is that the story meanders badly and you don't really care what is happening. It's now predictable that GRRM kills off or sidelines major characters and this book continues that trend with lame characters living on and receiving lavish attention. Again, these types of surprising plot twists, etc are interesting when they happen occasionally but in this book it just means that as a reader I don't really care too much about most of the remaining characters.  I guess that I'm still in shock after all these years that this book is so so bad compared to those that came before. It really does seem that GRRM has lost his grip on the overall story, let too many subplots, etc take over. I've gone from a believer that GRRM is the best fantasy writer since Tolkien to wondering if I'll even keep reading this series. I'm sad to write this but it's true. BAD.
I'll freely admit the long wait between Storm and Feast ticked me off.  But I preordered Feast and started reading it the second it got into my hands.  I won't go into why (there are plenty of good reviews of that book around), but after reading THAT literary abortion, I swore I would not purchase George's next book unless it blew me away.  Fortunately, the HBO series made sure there were plenty of people around whom I could borrow Dance from.  I have a new promise... I won't even read George's next book. If you need reasons, read all the other great reviews of this book (like the three best rated reviews).  I'm done with this series; Fantasy has a new wealth of excellent writers who don't think things like "plot" are secondary to the story.
George R.R. Martin goes for another pay check with this interminable narrative. Nothing has really happened in this series since book two. There are so many characters, many of which are not seen often, that the whole mess is confusing and boring. Where are the white walkers? What ever happened to the rest of the Stark clan? Where is the black dragon? On and on. I am trying to finish this book in the hope that something interesting happens. The book does a decent job describing this world but the fun in the first book has long since gone away. I will not read a book six.
George......you owe me $50.00. I have never felt so cheated in in all my years of dedicated reading. I am happy to see that I am not alone in hoping your writers block is a terminal condition.
dictionary definition of insipid: narrator of Little Women I listened to an hour and a half of the audio version and it was painful.  The four girls are so spoiled and unworthy of being written about.  They complain about being poor, yet they live in a warm, snug house, with food to eat every day, a house keeper and changes of clothes.  Even when they meet a truly poor family they still feel hard done by.  I can't possibly listen to another minute of this story  to clarify, i think the reader of this audio book did a good job for the part I listened to.  She was enthusiastic and had good characterizations of the various characters.
This book, the fifth in the series comes after a 6 year wait. It turns out, it was not worth waiting for.  The prose is meandering and simplistic, the plotlines confusing, and the story is...boring. We travel endlessly with characters we don't care about, watching them walk, or sail, then walk, then sail some more. Many of the chapters I literally just skipped through as I didn't really care- and the info I needed was in the last paragraph (I am thinking of the Dorne chaps...).  The language and prose is so bad it is amazing this got through editing. That's fame, I guess.  I think the best art is usually the simplest (in it's simplicity conveying great depth and complexity), and it is actually more difficult to convey power and beauty in less words than more. Even Tolkien wrote a trilogy. ASOIAF could be written in literally 3 books. Maybe 2 long books.  The fact that nothing/little is resolved and new plotlines are actually opened means we have at least 2 more books, and if they take 10 more years, that puts grrm well into his 70's. I hope he has kept copious notes.  I think as a new reader what is all the more infuriating is if you visit his blog titled "not a blog", you see him peddling his old books, posting trailers for the new series of HBO's A Game of Thrones, going to conventions, and commenting on football. Since Dance was written, he has said literally nothing about writing the next book- seemingly he hasn't. For fans, to watch him in full on marketing mode, extending the wait and then pushing out a poorly written, boring book is inexcusable.
The last two books were just flat out, plain old horrible.  After reading the previous book, (and, actually, I'd started this at the end of the that book), with this book I had gotten unbelievably bored with the series, and would read the first two pages of every chapter, and, if it didn't grip me, i'd skip to the next chapter (I love my kindle and ability to quickly do that).  You would think that this would lead me to ending up at chapters where I didn't know what was going on.  Amazingly enough, that never happened!  Apparently, NOTHING happened in this book.....
It's not like another review is needed for this book (as of writing, there are over 1700 reviews), but I just had to put in my two cents.  I absolutely loved the first 3 books of the ASOIAF series.  They were some of the best books I have ever read.  A Feast for Crows was very disappointing, but I fully expected Martin to get back on track with this book.  I couldn't have been more wrong.  I don't really need to go in to detail about what is wrong with this book, but it appears that Martin just doesn't enjoy writing this series anymore.  He has said so himself many times on his blog and in interviews that this book was a pain to write.  He makes millions of dollars from these books that we the fans pay over 20 dollars each for, and he is making it sound like he has the hardest job in the world.  I'll list the problems with this book:  no advancement in major plotlines, overuse of "cliffhangers", no climactic scenes such as large battles or interesting things happening.  Now that his books are being made into a TV series on HBO, it's evident he cares more about being a writer/producer for the TV series than actually writing the next book.  Speaking of that, when will he finish the next book?  2018?  If we are lucky.
First three books great, book four, not so bad - this one was so bad that I rented the audio book to finish while driving The author himself states this was difficult to write - if you think he's Tolkien like, then consider this his Simarillon Frankly, I don't care if he finishes the series anymore - he's lost the plot
I was very disappointed in this book.  The plot doesn't develop significantly, but that is not my main criticism. I can see what Martin is doing with the story, and I appreciate it. It is a build-up, every story needs that.  What lost me was the world-building. Way too many "characters" and "cultures". Endless lists of names and relations. What am I reading, a family tree?  Or a travel guide?  I can see why the author might think this makes the world bigger and more realistic etc, but it fails.  Why am I wasting my time reading about hundreds of irrelevant not-even-secondary "characters"?  Answer: I'm not.  I had to do the unthinkable and skim through this verbiage.  If you are a speed-reader, this is the perfect book to practice on.  I suspect Martin likes to make his readers suffer but I think he even failed at that here.  Instead of suffering I skipped.  Pros: I enjoyed the descriptions of feasts - Jordan is a pro at that, and it makes my mouth water to read.  The early Tyrion chapters were a nice diversion.  I enjoyed the Theon plot arc, although it was horrifying.  The opening of his first chapter hit me unexpectedly, and my stomach still roils thinking about it.  Props to that, Martin, you got me.  I was not expecting that.  I also had some fun digging back into the 2nd and 3rd book to find out who "Reek" was.  However, in the end, the book just wasn't believable.  The motivations and decisions of many characters felt forced.  For instance, why would the Boltons want Reek to listen in on their secret/personal talks?  Why, for the author to give the reader some juicy info.  Add in silly cliffhangers concluding each chapter, new POVs (more scenery, more setup, more verbiage), and cut-aways from action, and the book had me scratch my head thinking "huh?" instead of "that's amazing!" like the previous books.  It's staggering how this series went from a focused dramatic saga to a recital of minutiae.  Martin must have gotten convinced along the way that the world-building was the best part of his books, because he's delved into that headfirst, trying to grow the world so large that it absorbs every possible name, event, history, etc.  But it just becomes encyclopedic in nature instead of dramatic, and all the superfluous stuffing smothers the story.  I laughed at my friends who had been suckered into Jordan's pointless world. Joke is on me this time.  A Feast for Crows was superior to this book, at least the author's voice was confident.  A Dance with Dragons reads like a stunted and rickety mess.  I am unsure whether to continue with this series.  Just because one of the books is bad doesn't mean all hope is lost.  But I am a little worried that with all the extra plot threads, I'll have no idea who is who and what is what next go round, and that the author will undoubtedly throw in hundreds more unnecessary characters.  There is just too much here, and little of it is interesting, and I only have so many brain cells to devote to fictional worlds.
I am an avid reader of historical, speculative, and fantasy fiction, and I'll check out any author who invites me into an alternate world. So please don't think I'm dissing the genre here. As I read through the first four books in this series, I became increasingly resentful of abusive language about women, vicious violence & war, and, speaking plainly, just what the heck was going on. Characters are introduced as if we already know them, but they come out of anywhere without any context. Yes, 'sprawling epic' it is, but it just isn't Tolkein, so don't be fooled by the hype! Martin tried and failed. It just doesn't seem possible, but this fifth book in the series is worse than the previous four, overburdened by eroticized violence and endless descriptions of what this or that character is wearing. If you want well-written and well-conceived fiction, this is not the series of books to pick up, and would definitely be a disappointing waste of your time and money.
I slogged through 740 pages of this snail-paced rambling tome, finally making it to "The Iron Suitor", and suddenly realized that I didn't care about the Iron Suitor, or anything else that might come in this poorly edited, poorly conceived and poorly executed monstrosity. And this took YEARS to write??? The American Tolkien???  What a joke!  It's as though Martin hired a hack ghost writer for "A Feast for Crows" and this mediocrity.  Otherwise he is burned out. His first three of the series were brilliant, but the last two, what disappointments, but more importantly a terrible waste of time.  One star for duping me into buying it.  See Anodyne115's review for detailed insight.
It's obvious to this reviewer that content thought was seriously lacking for book 5, A Dance with Dragons.  Far too many loose ends even after the author attempted to close the series in a nice package.  Had I known about the serious issues with this book I wouldn't have started the long winded, boring series.  Very disappointed with Mr. Martin's effort in this one.
I'm giving this one star because after waiting years for the story to pick up again.  This book was more disappointing than the last.  It didn't go anywhere.  In the end we're basically where were with these dragons before the book.  It was more plots more characters, boring, slow, and hard to finish.  Hard to finish is the least horrible thing I can say.  I bought this book on pre order years ago.  So I got it as soon as it came out.  I just finished it yesterday.  I've read at least a dozen books since starting this book.  I finally resolved to finish it, and with that decided that this series is done for me.
Trying to stay motivated so I could finish this book wasn't easy. Where the first three in the series took me only a week or two to finish each, it was very different with books 4 and 5. It turned into a chore. We have Tyrion spending the whole book traveling to meet Dany...and not getting there. We have Victarion making the same journney.... he doesn't get there either. Does Dany, the great dragon queen, make any effort at all in reaching Westros and retaking the seven kingdoms? She does not, even though it was the most important goal for her. She seems content enough screwing around in Meereen not accomplishing anything while acting like some stupid teenage girl that fawns over the irrelevant Daario.  I thought maybe in this book Jon Snow would fight or at least learn more about the others and the white walkers. You know, only the most important aspect of the whole Ice and Fire series. But not this book everyone. No, we get treated to wildings, lots and lots of wildings. They move from one side of the wall to the other side. That's it.  I had great hopes for things i'd like to see in this series. Wouldn't it be awsome if Dany used her dragons fight all those undead "others" with the help of Jon Snow and the Night's Watch in some epic battle? Well after reading ADWD and AFFC i'm not keeping my hopes up for any fulfilling ending to the once great Ice and Fire series.
I loved the first 3 books, and got through each in about a week.  The 4th was not as good for reasons folks have already mentioned, but it still was readable despite some of my favorite characters being saved for book 5.  After almost 1 month, I am only 1/3 through the book and despair of finishing it.  I have skipped some chunks that were most tedious, but even the chapters where my favorite characters (those few that have not been killed off or MIA), the story is not compelling.  I guess these last 2 books are bridges for the next one, but good luck getting through this one.  Maybe he is distracted by the HBO series, or HBO is influencing the story, but I fear I will have to put this book to rest after one last attempt.
The author has lost control of all the multiple characters and plotlines. I churned through the first book, could not finish this one. It gets bogged down and needed a serious edit and the whole thing of it being a catch up on what happened meanwhile with the characters missing from book 4 was a terrible device. The story went backwards.
a totally unfinished story. the author didn't finish this series, he just stopped writing. so many interesting story lines, plots and sub plots developed and none of them finished. when I started to read the last book i wondered how he was going to tie all these loose ends together. he didn't. he just continued spinning his tale until he got tired of writing and then walked away. weak. Very weak. A most unsatisfying series
This book is overall a slow read. The characters are not very interesting. The plot of Little Women is flat and confusing. It is also quite repetitive, and I feel as though the same story could have been told with many fewer words.
Once upon a time, George Martin created a pretty compelling fantasy world run by the most interesting politicians since the Borgias. The first book was great. The second book was great. The third book was pretty good, too. But the fourth was, at best, tepid and, truth be told, seemingly thrown together. Martin told us we had to endure Crows to set up the payoffs promised in upcoming volumes 5 to 7. And then came volume 5, a travesty that makes Crows seem like Lord of the Rings.  I could, in the Martin manner, ramble on to no great effect for a few hundred pages. But let's cut to the chase: Dragons is a mess. So bad that I will not read another Martin word ever again. Not again. Never. Fool me once... You have been warned.
This book is a waste of your time ! The book leaves you with many open ends and forgotten characters while it makes long boring turns around new characters that seem to be completely unrelated to anything that ever happened. The end is abrupt and really doesn't appear to be the end of the book until you realize that there are no more chapters to follow. The author created so many characters in this story that he failed to connect them in the end. I'm so disappointed !
GRRM is literally losing the plot (and readers) . This longwinded bloated story is now reminiscent of Jordans Wheel of Time series, which despite the latter authors untimely demise, still wanders aimlessly on and on and on! Whole forests have been wasted on paper for both, though thankfully ebooks may limit the eco-damage and global warming resulting from this literary (??)  waffle. I fear the same fate awaits this series-  maybe I will pass the toil of finishing this series to my grandchildren, at around volume 10 in say, 30 years from now. Such a pity to see such a good first 3 volumes dissipate into such aimless meandering and navel- gazing!!
Very disappointing. Lightweight
I am sick of waiting years for books to come out.  I don't want this to turn into another wheel of time which 2 years after the author died still has at least 2 more books to go.  I have seen that this series which was supposed to be 4 books from the start has now grown to 7.  7!!!!  really.  And there is no way to tell if that is it.  Authors need to STOP MILKING THE SERIES FOR MONEY and write the words THE END.  Look at McKiernan.  8 or 9 books in the series but each one is its own seperate story.  I refuse to buy another book in this series until the words THE END have been written.  And by that time the books which I haven't read will be 2 cents apiece on Amazon plus $3 for shipping or at a used book store or yard sale for $1.  A lot better than pay $10 or so for a part of the story which doesnt go anywhere.
This will be short, so not to bored readers the way Mr Martin did with ADWD. What a disappointment this book was compared to the great writing in books 1-3. Not sure what GRRM was trying to accomplish in ADWD, but one thing he did was lose me as a fan. After watching the HBO series I ran out and purchased all four  song of ice and fire books. The first three books were masterfully written. Reading ADWD I felt totally ripped off. I payed full price for the hardcover book $35. Which I'm sure Mr Martin can appreciate. Mr Martin said book 5 was dedicated to the fans. If so, he did a injustice to us. The fans deserve better. Good luck to HBO on trying to save the show after book three. But what now? What to do with a 1000 page book that has more nonsense written then AFFC.Use it as a door stopper or Kindle to start your fireplace. I say no. I will donate my copy of ADWD to my local library,hopefully some GRRM fan can save their hard earned money. That's my two cents, In my opinion that's all this book was worth.
It seems to me ADWD is a book that was created to extend what was originally 5 book series to 7 book series. I felt like nothing really happens until very late part of the book. Very disapointed...
Gypped and hoodwinked again!  After the first three imaginative, action-packed volumes, the last two have been pathetically painful. I was hoping Martin had taken some advice from his fans after the disaster that was A Feast for Crows.  Apparently not.  Obviously, Martin is going for the "stretching out the series with filler trash a la Robert Jordan show-me-the-money" angle, and abandoning all pretense of imagination, decent writing and character development. Why do these series have to go on and on if there's nothing worth reading? Amping up the soft porn and vulgar language is the only nod to "action" anywhere in this book, maybe a boon to all the lonely nerds camped out in their parents' basements, but not to me. Too many characters discussing nothing, endless repetition of themes (yes, we know Daenerys is unsure, young, and horny.  WHERE ARE THE DRAGONS???  Yes, we know Theron has broken teeth and missing fingers and Ramsay is a sadistic monster.  WHEN IS THE REVENGE??? Yes, we know Jon Snow is young, unsure and being challenged at every turn.  WHEN DOES HE TAKE CHARGE??? Lord Manderly is slovenly, the Lannisters are cruel, Tyrion is the misunderstood Imp, etc, etc) It takes 500+ pages for anything to happen, and it didn't tie up all the unraveling threads of endless characters no one cares about. Creating new characters is no substitute for a good story. Boring boring boring.  A shameful sputtering end to a promising beginning.
The books in this series are the worst I've ever read.  I'll never understand why they have gotten such rave reviews, or why the author is so revered.  All the truly interesting things in the story are largely neglected while the reader is tortured with a never ending stream of barbaric violence, injustice, crude language, and the constant introduction of new characters.  There are no heros. There's nothing you can do but helpless watch as every character you cheer for is brutalized or killed throughout the story.  Given the sheer length of each of these books times 5, it's simply becomes overwhelming. Never has a book pissed me off, but G.R.R. Martin managed to do it to me 5 times in a row. No more. I hear there are supposed to be 2 more books in this grueling series. I won't read them. I couldn't care less how it all ends. I just want my life back.
I'm very disappointed in the production values of this audiobook. Sound quality was okay, but the voices supplied by Roy Dotrice wandered constantly. There's no consistency in the voices he used for characters between books or even during this book. Cersei suddenly has Tyrion's voice, Daenerys sounds like a peasant maid and Melisandre changes from mysterious and sultry to worn-out crone. And those are just the big names.  It is the production company's job to work with the narrator to keep this from happening. Instead they want $50 for something that would get a bad reader review on Librivox.  Shame on you people for sending this out in such a shoddy state! I'm done with your audiobooks.
It should be explicit on the cover of this book that it is an abridged version - very disappointed, and sending back rather than giving it as a gift.
I love Little Women, but hate this version. The font is minuscule. I plan to buy a copy at Barnes and Noble or other brick-and-mortar store where I can see what I'm getting.
Don't waste your time.  This has to be one of the worst books I have ever read.  Contrived, anticlimatic, meandering, with so many loose ends you think the author must have descended into full blown alzheimers while he was writing it.
After the first three books of this series, (Wasn't it was originally planned as a trilogy?) I believe GRRM got lost and has no idea where this series is going.  It's like telling a long joke and not knowing the punch line.  The only other choices are #1 That he is milking the series for all the money he can.  #2 He has some ending in mind that just will not fit the story up to now, but will try to convince us it does. Will wait until the end of the series is published, find out how it ends before I will waste another dime on this.
I've been wanting to read this for years. I finally got the book and couldn't get past the first 6 chapters. I am used to modern fiction and although I'm sure there are great literary elements to take away from it, I'm not reading to pass a class. I already have an English minor. And this just wasn't engaging enough for me to finish.
I would give all the previous books in the series at least a 4 or higher, and each one left me anticipating the next book.  But this book has completely destroyed any interest I have in finding out what happens next in the series.  This book goes absolutely NOWHERE interesting.  It is like packing to go on a road trip, but spending the entire trip going around in circles in a parking lot.  Other reviewers have commented on the excessive details; I don't mind details if they add something to the story, but too often the details just seem like filler (was GRRM getting paid by the word?). Too much time was spent on what the chracters ate, or what they wore (I'm talking about you, Dany), and not enough time on what they thought or felt. I kept waiting for something to happen, and everytime the story looked as though it were going to pick up steam (see Reek), it fizzled out like wet firecrackers. The other 4 books kept me up at night reading until the wee hours of the morning, this one put me to sleep.
You would think that after writting 5 900-1000 page books, Martin could of found an end to the stories! Instead, he intoduced new characters in the 5th book and never brought any of the story-lines to a satifactory conclusion!
Because since the 4th, you can see it become a soap opera just made to make money... A pity, the firsts books are a masterpiece.
I picked up the first book and loved it.  The second book was okay...but didn't have a purpose beyond expanding the story...then we got into books three to five.  Great stories...but no reason for them...new characters coming out of the wood work and not advancing the plot.  This last book was hopelessly the worse one yet...nothing happened and the characters never got beyond doing stuff...To be honest George R.R. Martin is a great writer and should stick to short stories, or he needs to go back to writing 101 and learn to develop a novel...or just go back to book one...he did so much better there.
This book was the biggest disappointment I've had in years. It dragged on and on and by the middle of the book I found myself beginning to skip over much of it. I will never buy another George R.R. Martin book....I can't believe we waited all this time for such a miserable book
I was disappointed. It was not what I expected. The movie was great and so I thought the book would be even better. I did not find it so
The series began well and become worse.  The book should have been titled "Book 5 - The Quest For More Cash". It lacked pace, contained some errors but above it all lacked resolution. That intimate conspiracy that a good author forms with his/her readers was ignored or at least compromised - almost like writing by numbers.  It is a clumsy reworking of the dregs and I'd suggest saving your money. Martin is no Tolkien and needs a better editor. I have no wish to volunteer for the task.  Dr Steve Benson
The first three books of Game of Thrones were fantastic!  A++  The last two books were not good.  A Dance with Dragons is really bad, or maybe I am just tired of the plot that goes nowhere and the silly phrases and words that GRRM now uses over and over... and over... until you want to puke.  Here is a list of the most irritating and overused words or phrases in these last two books.  (If you have more, please add them in the comments below)  1.  Mummer's farce 2.  "Words are like wind" 3.  Reek, Reek... it rhymes with (whatever you want to rhyme with reek). 4.  "Where do whores go?" 5.  Flagon 6.  "You know nothing, Jon Snow" 7.  Jape 8.  "It is known" 9.  "Broke his/her fast"  I guarantee that HBO will only do three seasons worth of Games of Thrones.  And this will cover the first three books.  Why?  Because the last two are a mess with a billion characters that we don't care about.
After Crows' negligible forward movement, I gave GRRM a few chapters into Dragons to see if he was going to continue to play with himself or if he'd actually move the story forward. After reading the first few chapters, I closed the book, returned it to the bookstore (saying it was an unwanted present), and I exchanged it for a book from a writer who still remembered how to write a story. No intention of purchasing any more GRRM books.
This book was an epic fail, a fantasy "Days of Our Lives" where the plot moves at a snail's pace and old familiar characters die off while new ones are introduced exponentially.  I wonder if GRRRRM even knows where he is going with this book. This series has become akin to a movie that I heard was good, and started off good, but turned out to be bad, but I just keep watching either because I expect it to get better, or I have already invested so much time in it.  I cannot understand why this would merit 5 stars from anyone other than those making money off of it. To me 5 stars makes it one of the all time best books I have ever read, one that I will reread again and again because it is so entertaining, one that I think fondly of, or causes me to think in new ways, or inspires me to change my life. How can this book be any of those things to anyone, even to the author?  At most I would think it should get 3 stars, but that would only be due to it being part of a larger series. By itself it should get one star, if that.  The only redeeming feature of the book is the cliffhanger at the end, but if that situation turns out bad (character dies) then my interest in this series as a whole will die along with him.
I am loathe to add another negative review, but puhleeeeease! What happened to plot here? The first books were original and riveting, and the writing was inspired. I was mesmerized. Now I have another 300 characters I am supposed to keep track of, none of whom I care about. (ok, I exaggerate, but not by much). Nothing really happened to advance any detectable plot. I think the Tolkien comparisons may have gone to Martin's head. Every good book deserves an ending. I can almost see this going down Robert Jordan's path. I am not inclined to watch ( or read, as the case may be) another brilliantly conceived fantasy series trickle down to crap because the author either didn't know how to wrap it up or was so enamored of the cash-cow that he simply lost sight of his story and his readers. I truly hope Martin pulls this one back together and actually has an idea where he is headed with this series. And that if he does, he doesn't bore us with a whole lot more inconsequential minutiae on the way. The 1 star review is based probably solely upon my utter disappointment. This series started so brilliantly, and now it feels like a thud.
Let me qualify by saying that not only have I read all of the Fire and Ice books but before Dance with Dragons was about to come out, REREAD all the books over to refresh my memory and to savory a truly amazing author at work. I have never been so effected by an authors writings as I have with GRRM"s Fire & Ice books. That being said you can understand my crash of a paradise lost watching a directed and focused writer lose it. The reason I continue reading a book is because I care about the characters, I have a personal investment so to speak. I had a rough time understand and getting past the death Ned (Lord Eddard Stark),George baby that was your shot readers will give you that one. George Martin you don't understand that people have to care for your characters so when you systematically exterminate people in your book readers will eventuality ask them selves why do I what to continue reading? Who will be next? I decided that I didn't want to keep reading if at anytime,whap Half-man your gone, whap Dany your toast.   Book five comes to very little conclusion. More characters are added, plots barely plod along with gregarious description. I don't know if GRRM started drinking and drugging. Maybe he loved this world he created and never wanted to it to ever end, I really don't know. What I do know is that what started out great ended up stalled in its tracks. What a shame because when he stumbled he took every one down with him.
This is by far the book I've had most problems getting through. I mostly read books before going to sleep and normally have no problem staying awake and never fall asleep mid-sentence. With this book I managed 10-20 pages each night before falling asleep with the book in my lap.
This isn't going to be a detailed or well written review.  This book is loooooong and boooooring.  I have taken to just reading the first sentence of each paragraph, and it is still really slow!
GRRM seems to be able to start hundreds of threads but never weave them into any kind of a believable tale.  Again we are left hanging with all characters in a desperate situation, but no resolution.  Any world with this many problems would simply collapse.  While this series is a fantasy, there has to be some thread of believable reality in it.  GRRM has completely missed on this one.
His book was offensive, misogynistic and vulgar.  To say he is similar to Tolkien is ridiculous.  Tolkien had class and wrote in prose, beautiffuly.  I was offended and appalled by Martin's latest book.  What a waste of time reading it.  Read LOTR instead.
After 5 books and nearly 5000 pages of GRRM's childish prose I have come....where? Nowhere it seems. Dozens of characters continue to wander aimlessly around the landscape achieving nothing. But hey, the journey itself must be the payoff right? It was (sort of) in Game of Thrones, but how many rapes, murders, floggings, flayings, stabbings, burnings and disembowelments can one author conjure? Quite a few it seems but none to the purpose of actually telling a story. Martin is a sadistic author who glories in the ghastly. His books consist of long passages describing torture, disease and cruelty for no reason other than to vicariously participate in the thrill of barbarism. This is snuff porn more than literature. I feel unclean after having read it.  When he's not spending pages describing new ways for a character to die (always horribly) he's pouring out words like the bloody flux to educate me on the finer points of medieval cuisine. How many times do I have to read that 'grease and blood' ran down someone's chin? Or that the meat was 'charred outside and bloody inside?' And I don't care to hear again about the foul stew ladled into the stale trenchers. After a while this is just pointless.  And what about the characters themselves? At this point I don't care about any of them. The reason that conventional stories have a protagonist is to give the reader some way to identify with the author's vision. But Martin eschews conventional protagonists (although he has a few antagonists) and replaces them with a motley crew of brigands, thieves, rouges, murderers and fools. Perhaps a great writer could pull this off but GRRM is far from great. If you strip out his tiresome knowledge (and descriptions) of medieval armor, battlements and seige towers he appears to have the vocabulary of a young teenager.  He also has no vision -- certainly no moral center. He seems to write only for effect. Many years ago (25?) I read a story call 'A Song for Lya'. I'll never forget it. It told the story of a man and woman who were deeply in love but the woman makes a choice to give up her human life and become part of a great collective being. The man cannot bring himself to follow her and his sorrow at the abandonment is rendered so strongly that I felt wounded as if the pages had bitten me. This author seemed to me to be a new Poe -- able to create a powerful sense of horror in a few thousand words. He was, of course, George RR Martin. I have read nothing else of his until Ice & Fire. But he has not grown. He's still Poe -- all affect and no purpose. But now he's lost his compact style and become more bloated than any Dickensian.  Perhaps the final insult is that these books never conclude. Martin continues to string readers along with no intention of offering a resolution. At this point I no longer want to be subjected to what might really be a long, cruel, sick joke.
This book is a childhood favorite of mine. I purchased a copy as a gift and could not have been more disgusted by the quality. The cover artwork is extremely grainy. The pages have far too much text on them, with tiny margins. The page numbers are not even in the same font as the rest of the text--and the publisher even misspelled "copyright". Do purchase this novel, but go with a publisher you recognize.
I struggled through books 4 and 5 somehow, each one getting worse and worse, only to discover the stories do not end. I knew there were 5 books in the series, so I expected some conclusion. Sadly, none to be found. The level of writing and story telling kept getting lower and lower. In short, just don't bother! The Kindle facts that book 5 is even more expensive ($14.99) and these books cannot be lent just add to the misery.
I was here to buy 'A Dance with Dragons' after finishing with 'A Feast for Crows'.  Feast was published in 2005  it's been 6 years and now they want 15 bucks for the kindle edition of 'Dragons?  Nope, sorry, it's back to used books for me.
Too old fashioned for me
I have read the whole series so far, so I wanted to get this book.  Looking at the $35 price tag at the bookstore was a little hard so I finally went to the library and borrowed it.  I am glad I did.  To be honest, I found this series predictable but entertaining.  I could pretty much figure out what was going to happen to who well before I read it.  A Dance with Dragons just leaves a bad taste in my mouth and leaves me asking the question what exactly was he thinking when he wrote this book?  I am no author but I could have done a better job.  This book isn't even boring filler material needed to set up back stories or to move the book along.  What he does to some of the characters leaves more questions than answers.  Really, what was the purpose of Jon in the series if he is killed off?  What is Bran doing with the greenseers?  What is Arya's purpose?  Why did Daenyris fight for the slaves if she is just going to run off and let them be enslaved again?  With this tome, the author has utterly destroyed the whole purpose of this series.  He has killed off most of the important characters and left the others with absolutely no direction at all so that this series is spiraling downward into a pit from which it will take a massive undertaking to recover to even be an acceptable series in the genre.  This book was a severe disappointment for me and was not even worth borrowing from the library.  I definitely won't be waiting anxiously for the next book after this disaster.  Maybe Goodkind or Williams will have a new series coming out soon.  Heck, I'll even take a new Dragonlance over this series now.
I say that because this book is just Feast of Crows the Second. It's very clear that this author has no interest in writing this series any longer; the plot fumbles for about 100 pages and then I gave up altogether. I do not know if this was ghost written, but it certainly shows that the author will just keep reusing plots for money. Shame on me for buying it without having first read the sample.
To make my point I'll be as concise as possible in this review. 90% of this and Feast for Crows were not only boring, but pointless to plot. The other part of the problem in Feast, repeated here, is focus on characters that aren't interesting. And most importantly, Martin's insistence on the use of internal narrative over and over again - whether it be simple thoughts or dream sequences - is completely unnecessary. When it was Catelyn remembering playing with her sister and Littlefinger as kids I could take it, because those folks were interesting. But I don't need 200 pages to realize that Cersei hates everyone, and I don't need 200 pages of Dany contemplating, or Tyrion pissing.  I don't need to be reminded anymore that Davos has lost his fingers. If this book was going to be terrible couldn't it have been shorter?!  Maybe in more need of an editor than anything I've read this side of a Bill Simmons article.
I'm not sure what happened here. I can only guess that Martin has lost interest in this, and is dragging himself through the pages on the whipping insistence of his editor.  There are flashes of what I enjoyed in the first three books, but those flashes are quickly snuffed by pages and pages of monotonous slush. Not even Tyrion can save this one.  I've learned a lesson here. If you start a series, tell your story, and finish it promptly. Don't do... this.  King did the same thing with The Dark Towers series. Fool me once...
This vendor is not a legitimate publisher - I purchased the paperback and it looks like someone printed it on their home printer. Small font, no paragraph returns. Complete waste of money. Zero stars.
The version I bought said unabridged but it was like a 4th grade level chapter book and had a typo on the first page. Very disappointed with this vendor.
After the 1st 4 books he produces this was total bored the 1st 4 books i couldn't wait to finish this one was as boring as watching Parilment question time. Hope the wait the next book isn't so long, cause Song Of Ice and Fire was a waste of time waiting and a waste of $35 Next time I will wait till i get a copy from the library!!  George RR Martin you lost focus somewhere!
It  took me 6 months to finish this book because it was so convoluted and boring. Seriously, GRRM, it took you 5 years to come up with this?  Don't buy it, wait for the HBO series which will hopefully have diverged significantly from the books by then
Mr. Martin, what you've just written is one of the most insanely idiotic things I have ever read. At no point in your rambling, incoherent chapters were you even close to anything that could be considered a rational thought. Every reader of your books are now dumber for having read it. I award you no stars, and may God have mercy on your soul.
What happened to Bran? Rickon? Sansa? Arya is a cutthroat child living across the narrow sea? Daenarys just flies off on a dragon? I don't see how you could say that this book was three bitches and a bastard after prattling on and on about nothing and leaving your readers hanging. I won't be fooled by you again!
This is absolutely the worst book I have read in my life.  I actually gave the book away about 200 pages before the end.  Yes, I am serious, and yes, the book is that bad.  I have been a long time GRRM fan.  I wasn't that pleased with Feast for Crows and absolutely hated ADWD.  I am through with the series and there was absolutely no progression of the storyline with this novel.  That may be agrued but the story did not progress at all.  Dead Story!!!!!!
I persevered with this book and have finally finished reading it.  I found it convoluted and boring beyond my previous experience of any fantasy writer.  The whole series is written in a way that is quite easy to put down, because you develop empathy for a character in one chapter only to find the next chapter is about an entirely different (and often quite mundane) character.  For someone who has a busy life and reads to relax, this can be a blessing, the book doesn't eat into your life and you can put it down frequently (which I did - especially in the last two books of the series).  Right now I have a sense that GRRM lost the plot and I'm not particularly interested in seeing if he ever finds it again.
Two months ago I was a huge fan of the Game of the Thrones series.  I read the first three books after the first season of the show, once I found out it was based of this series of books.  I absolutely loved them.  They kept my interests the twist were fun and refreshing.  It was great!  Then I got to the 4th book.  So bored I barely finished it. Then I started this book a month ago... I think I am somewhere around page 300ish?  And I won't finish it (note: my husband just finished it so I made him tell me what happened, and quite honestly I don't want to waste my time). 5 years from now when the next book comes out I might finish this one... but somehow the author would have to make me care what happens next, which I don't right now.  I read another review about these last two books being characters wandering the world doing things that are setting up for future books, but what is lacking in these books are the set ups are not interesting and look like they are going no-where. They certainly don't make me want to keep reading.  And I have had enough of chapter's ending where it looks like a character is dead and 5 chapters later they are fine.  Can we please think of a new game Mr. Martin?  Oh and Cat is brought back from the dead and is only in one chapter of this book and then forgotten.  Why did you bring her back if that was all you are going to do?  If she is going to show up in a later book....seriously?  Then you should have cut out all the new character's you brought in the last two books and focused on the characters people want to read about. Writing just to write is the same thing as someone talking to hear themselves talk.  Most people don't care what you are saying at that point.  I am very disappointed in these last two books.  I heard that this was originally supposed to be a trilogy; it probably should have stayed that way.  I would really like to get my money back for these last two books.
How could Martin's editors have let this go into print?  Was he to be paid no matter what drivel he put out.  Warning to anyone who hasn't read this yet - Go back and read the end of Feast and consider that the 'cliff hanger' end of Martin's career.  Martin put absolutely no thought into this story line (if you can even call it that).  There simply is no story.  I expected more from a person with such a loyal fan base.  It just goes to show you that some people simply don't care about their customers - so our only recourse is to give up on his future writings.  We have all been had...
Was under the impression the book would be better bound and less pixelated for the price I paid. Very disappointed with how it looks. Reminds me of an old maths textbook from school and it is such poor quality.
I loved the first three books in this series. I skipped Feast for Crows. I wish I had skipped Dance of Dragons. The quality is so bad I have trouble believing Martin really wrote it. Is he doing the Tom Clancy thing, having ghostwriters crank out product while he's off enjoying his money? I only got through about 100 pages before I gave up - I quit after an interminable ride in some kind of carriage with Tyrion and an old friend of the eunuch Varys, chatting, eating, drinking and stopping to piss several times. Dany is stuck in some dreary city bored out of her mind and boring the reader. Pass on this one.
I won't wax philosophical and in great detail as to why this was a disappointment; too many others have done it much more eloquently than I could. Not only did I buy the ADwD book, I downloaded the Kindle version so I'd never be without it until I finished it.  Never again.  If GRRM ever does release another installment, I'll come here and get the Cliff Notes and read the reviews before depositing another penny on this series. I thought perhaps AFfC was an abberation and surely this one would make up for it.  Let me also add that I'm a very forgiving person for authors regarding timelines for releasing books and the occasional story dragging a bit. When I decide to buy a particular author or series, I buy and collect them all. So for me to give this highly-anticipated book 2 stars and to feel strongly enough to voice my disappointment is a rarity. I'd have given it one star, but I really like the cover and it looks good in my library. Just so.
I got hooked on GOT from the TV show, have read the other books, was seriously bored by the last one, but really really hated this one.  With regard to the prolix part, the author is seriously in need of an editor. As it is, it seems as if any random thought that pops into his head automatically makes it on to the page. Hey, so there's a banquet with a million courses? Why not describe every course for page after page?  With regard to the vile part. Obviously the bastard of Bolton is meant to be awful, but was it really necessary to describe the way he treated Reek/Theon in such loving detail? Also the guy that had his nipple sliced off.  Awful book. Sorry. Awful awful awful. If I could give it less than no stars, I would.
I dragged myself through 5 books of this rubbish, hoping, begging for something to happen. But I just wasted 2 months I won't get back. After 5 books still NOTHING is resolved.  George Martin should honestly stick to TV. The book is written like a 2nd rate day time soapy, every chapter is a waffle of useless information and repeats like we forgot the entire book in an ad break, and every chapter, without fail, ends on a cliff hanger. It's just irritating.  With the exception of book 1, 3 and book 5 nothing happens, ever. And all that "happens" are just more cliff hangers, but they're the only ones of any worth.  Don't read it, seriously, watch the TV series enjoy it, and know you'll have to wait till the last episode of the 7th season to actually learn anything.  In fact, I highly recommend George abandons he last 2 books, rather let him write them as scripts and let someone else transcribe the TV series into a book.
It has been a month since this book was ordered and still not here. It was suppose to take 2 weeks. Do not buy a book from here if you wish to read it anytime soon. The price is not worth the lack of convenience.
Before buying this, check the publishers details. The EOS imprint has been defunct for approximately two years now, and the books themselves, though not labeled as such, are reprints of the British editions from Voyager (another old HarperCollins imprint) originally published in 2001. Oddly enough, the recent versions were printed in the US, but they failed to use the US version of the book to do so.  If you're looking for American English versions of this book, and the others in the 'Legends' series, you may want to look elsewhere.
Spoiler alert....and descriptions of graphic bodily functions etc. I give it one star, as a grace...compared to his other books in this series. But as a stand alone book...it doesn't deserve one star at all. ZERO for me.  We purchased this book because both my hubby and I enjoyed the series so far.  I personally did not like Book 4, however.  It has taken me almost 4 months to finish this volume.  Why?  Because it is so God awfully MORBID!  GAD...one would need psychiatric counseling or antidepressants at least to enjoy this book. So I trudged along at about 20 pgs a night...put it aside...tried again and again. Hubby kept saying...stick with it... it gets "better". Well it doesn't.  Some chapters, actually seem like the older volumes. Then the slag begins again. Boring, endless new dead end characters, pus, gore, stink, monkeys throwing feces, vomiting, blood, burning, eyeballs exuding liquids (poor Prince Martell). Poor Dany... she is vomiting like the rest of them!  I have reached my maximum ability to tolerate "realism" where Martin is concerned.  Does every page, every chapter have to have gruesome, endlessly detailed morbid descriptions of body functions, injuries, behaviors, murders?  We purchased this book on Amazon...and sent it to our vacation destination. What a huge mistake. Don't read this book if you are looking to relax, or have a good time. It will drag you down, and poison your days and possibly your dreams.  I can't see any of this book on movie or TV media.  How would it translate?  Good Grief!  I do think RR Martin is a talented writer (from his earlier books). But this stuff?  NOPE....it is just sensationalism and depressing.
The established characters do little but move in place the whole book. Nothing happens until the "surprise twist" at the end... which isn't exciting so much as leaving a bad taste in the mouth. Avoid the book.. read the wikipedia synopsis instead.
While reading the first 4 books in A Song of Ice and Fire Series, I just couldn't put them down. But while reading a Dance With Dragons, I have to make myself read in order to finish the book.  The book has too many pointless descriptions of places, clothes and food. There are also too many pointless dialogues and things who could have been told in one chapter, takes 3 or 4. Besides that, something rarely happens.
I read all of the previous books in this series and they are among the best fantasy that I have ever read. I'm sure that there is a plot somewhere in Dragons, but what's there could have been covered in a hundred pages. I made it three hundred pages into the book and it's on its way to Half-Priced Books. I don't have enough life left to waste it on the remaining pages.
He fancies himself Tolkein, however he's just another wannabe even going so far as to add the second "R" to his name. He even borrows some things from LOTR for example his "Kings Moot" compared to Tolkeins "Ent Moot". Tolkein was smart keeping the story moving and ending it in three books. Martin will be lucky to finish in seven books if at all. The fourth book was very disappointing because what happened to all the characters?????? I gave it one star should be a 0 since I'm done now, I've lost interest and won't buy any more.
I tried to read this as part of my book club.  I thought it was so boring that I could not keep my eyes open enough to read it!  There really wasn't anything big to work up to and it was rather ho-hum.  It is not for me!  I watched the movie instead (from 1991) and it was just as boring!  I tried!
Martin clearly was depicting how 'hungry' he was in this title when he went into detail over every damn meal. I wouldn't doubt it by looking at how large he is in real life. I've been a fan of the books since 2002, also this WAS my favorite series, but no longer. The past two hooks have been failures. Two wrongs don't make one RIGHT.  My girlfriends father is an author (One Second After) so I know a bit of the relationship between the author and his editor and publisher. Martins editor probably sucks up to him, not actually editing in fear of being scalded. His publisher is obviously giving him too much leeway. It took 6 years for this book to come out, I mean COME ON!
With over 1400 other reviews, I don't see much point in being long-winded. If only Martin felt the same. Another 1000 pages and nothing really happens. Too many characters, too little movement, too little resolution, too little action, and I find that I've really stopped caring. I'm actually only 2/3 of the way through the book, and I'm not sure I'll bother finishing.  That's sad. The first 3 were so good....
The first three books in this series are fantastic.  I loved every word.  The fourth, I struggled with...and was very frustrated when NOTHING happened!  This was the same.  So much was packed into the first three books, and these last two could have been shrunk to a single chapter each.  I won't buy any more in this series....I'm moving on
George Martin is no JRR Tolkein. Despite the glowing reviews, this series of books is somewhat entertaining (at least through the first three volumes) but it is definitely not for children. Too much graphic sex, too little wonder, and absolutely no respect for innocence. If I read one more description of the food eaten, or the clothes worn by his characters, I will puke. Worse, Martin also has a tendency to show the rape, abuse, and molestation of little girls in lurid and graphic detail. Almost as bad as the gratuitous sex forced on underaged girls, he has a tendency to cynically kill off the characters who his readers care about most and are most interested in. Keep your adolescent boys and girls away from this rotten stuff. I find myself regretting the time I have spent plowing through this material in a way I never regretted reading Tolkein. The reviewer who compared this series to Tolkein's great children's fiction should be fired and permanently barred from ever publishing another review.  A Tolkein for our times indeed. Was that reviewer payed to write so gross an untruth?
First off, I have the kindle version and it works just fine, I had no problems with it at all.  Now for the review of the book  The first few books started out with a Bang and I thought we were going to get something special and new.  Instead this book has continued what started in the 3rd book with a descent in obsessiveness with mediocre ramblings that while connected to the main story do NOT in any way move the story forward.  It's turning into the Wheel of time series for being excessively wordy and boring.  I honestly think that the writer is just writing to make money and not tell a story.  The writer just fails to engage beyond the interest created in the first 2 books.  Great you're trying to give us plot twists and intrigue, possible redemption for a few and definite characters that are grey, neither good or bad, just normal.  That doesn't mean that the author has to spend pages and pages without moving the story forward.  At this point, I'm not sure I'm going to read the rest of the books.  I don't like getting bilked and that's what this is starting to feel like.
I would like to preface this review but stating that I am a huge GRRM fan. A Song of Ice and Fire is one of my favorite reads. That was until this book. I have just now finished the 959 page torment. I bought this book the day it was released and I have now only just finished reading this 4 months later.  I will agree with the other reviewers that this book was way to long and said absolutely nothing. What has George done with my Starks? I fell in love with this family, he made me fall in love with this family and now what? NOTHING, that's right NOTHING. I loved the whole direwolf connection and I am still waiting for Arya to come home and kick some A$$. But no, she is still in a temple doing NOTHING. What has happened to the strong women in this story. In this book Dany was weak and whiney and love sick. There were chapters upon chapters of nothingness.  I will most likely buy and read the next book when it comes out 5 years from now because I feel like I have invested time from my life I will never get back.  Dear George,  I need some resolution. I have stuck by you for a very long time now and feel like as with most men you finished the best part way to early. Please don't write another 959 page book about boats and urinating and what people are wearing and dragons who don't do anything. I don't know if I could take that. I will conclude this rant buy saying there are way to many new characters in this story that no one cares about. They do NOTHING but fill paper. Please George get back to the "meat" of your world. Stop taking us places no one wants to go. You need to reread the first three books again and rekindle your love of these characters that we, your readers, have come to care about. Also, FIRE your editor.
This series started out wonderful, I loved the 1st two book and the 3rd was ok. This one and the 4th one were terrible. The problem is there are too many characters, too much unnecessary dialogue, and the biggest problem is the plot is moving too slow. At this rate the story won't be nearly finished in book 7. Maybe if books came out every year this wouldnt be a problem, but they only come out every 4 or 5 years. I am really mad bc this series was soo good at the beginning.
Having read the 100 5-star reviews stating nothing about the content of the book and only about the paper quality, I will retaliate by saying that I have bought the book today, with 20 blank pages at the beginning of the book. Very bad printing job.  Please save your money and don't buy this book.
I loved the first three books of the series but the fourth seemed half a book and went nowhere (not surprisingly since Martin claimed that it was half of a book and the other half would be out in no time). After five years we get this absolutely worthless excuse for a book. Chapter after chapter introduces one or two characters, moves the plot forward infinitesimally and then skips onto the next. Half way through I realised that even if I finished the book there would still be TWO MORE to come (by 2023 given his present pace). I think that he has written himself into a corner, he has no idea of how the plot will end, if it ever will.
This book series began strongly, and I was definitely hooked. I burned through the first three in probably less than 2 weeks. I love the genre, and the characters really grew on me. I wanted to know where they (and the realm) would end up.  What I began noticing, however, was that George Martin's writing tends towards being a whole lot of words about nothing. No furtherance of major plot points. No grand character arcs, as those who you hold onto tightest end up being killed off for nothing. It gets to a point where you don't care about any of them anymore, because who knows a)what the overall PLOT of the book is, and b)who will even be around 5 chapters later.  Gag me if I have to read 20 zillion more pages about extraneous scene descriptions. I ended up skipping pages at a time because they consisted entirely of descriptive fluff. What else made my eyes roll? All the "turning his head and spat"s and "bit his/her tongue so hard he/she tasted blood"s. Talk about repetitive literary tricks. It's the complete opposite of the word 'creative'. Martin's writing is cliche and tired.  I feel as though I wasted my time and money with A Dance With Dragons. Absolutely nothing gets resolved; as it was in A Feast for Crows, only more questions are raised. I was a fan, but now I'm definitely a hater. Heed my review and save your money. That day/week/whatever of your life you spend reading this garbage, you will never be able to get back.
I waited years for this book.  I followed GRRM's personal web site, followed his sporadic updates regarding the delays around this book - and this is the final product ?  I *was* a fan of this series.  I read and enjoyed the previous four books, immensely, but this work was a dog's breakfast.  This book is bloated, it is full of senseless character deaths, not to mention the reams of constant tedium that fill the pages ... my Lord it was a bloody trial to get through it.  Suffice it to say, I will not read the last two promised books in this series.  Good bye, GRRM.
I started reading this series in 1999.  I read a game of thrones and a clash of kings and waited with anticipation for a storm of swords.  I remember getting one of the first copies of the book and enjoyed reading it.  I had expected that book to be the last book, but it wasnt.  I expected the fourth book a feast for crows to come out in 2002, it didnt.  When that book finally came out in 2005 I was so excited to finally have some resolution to the story.  I was very disappointed.  GRRM says at the end that dance with dragons is almost finished and will be out in the spring (2006).  Years I have waited for this story to end... it just never ends.  It is like the junkie that you keep taking to treatment but keep finding in the gutter.  I am finished with this series and with GRRM. The story has been so watered down now that I DONT CARE what happens anymore.  He will not get ONE MORE PENNY from me!
This was NOT the puffin in bloom addition of the book. Just some old plain version. RIPPED OFF.
I ordered "Little Women" because my grandma was in love with the book so I finally decided to read it. I was surprised to find that some parts of the book did not make any sense and were confusing. Well, here's the reason: this is not the original but only an abridged version -- SURPRISE! -- so if you are looking for the real deal, do not order this one. Another thing: the overall mood of the book is so extremely optimistic and stuffed with sugar, it will make you gag if not throw up by the time you're done. Maybe, the original is different, but this version is horrid.
There was some quick media work to create an image for this author and this series. I got suckered in through the New Yorker profile. The first couple of books were tolerably interesting, though terribly over written and very poorly edited. Then the thing completely dissolves into random intrigue, cruel killing, almost always grotesque sex and endless references to excrement, mucus and other bodily fluids. Character development is completely disappointing. If you conceived a scrap of interest in someone you can count on the fact that they either disappear, are subject to some randomly concocted barbarous death, or get mired to unrecognition in some hokey and over-written plot line. The only comparison to Tolkien is the pretentious RR in the author's name. Spare yourself unless you'll get a kick out of an epic parody. Cheers!
I won't go into all the details, as they have already been mentioned. Foremost, I LOVED the first 3 books. A Feast for Crows was pretty awful, but I chalked it up to a transitional book setting up elements for DWD. And after much waiting, delaying, excuses, HBO deal, more delays, etc. we get a book with about 200 pages of actual storyline and 800 pages of tedious details. And not the kind of details that really add value to anything... just details that seem like pointless filler.  I understand that a writer's job isn't easy and expectations were really high for this one, but I've pretty much decided to give up on this series, as I didn't get any real gratification or enjoyment from these last two books. 1 star.
Why do you hate your fans Mr. Martin?  Dragging us along for sooo many tedious tiresome pages with not even a hint of reward. Skipping anything we want to see but forcing us to endure the never ending stream of new characters for no payoff. Killing (maybe) the only decent characters without any drama, and going on endlessly about characters we don't know or care about.  Do we really need 25 different perspectives? No, it amounts to smarter-type filler from a writer who clearly knows better.  I will definitely not buy any more of the books.  Maybe if, by some miracle, they get back on track with the rich drama of the first book or two, I will rent it first.  Thanks for a very very disappointing 1000 pages.  Jerk.
Worst book of the series.  A Dance With Dragons seems to go on and on and on, too many new characters are introduced, too many subplots and about  the chapters are boring.  Although, there were enough good chapters to keep me reading and eventually finishing the book.  At this point I am undecided on reading the next book in the series.
This is an abridged version that doesn't tell the whole story. Don't buy it.
It was a long time coming, which may have added to the expectation that this would be another fantastic book. The reality was a very different story. I could forgive the addition of new characters coming out of nowhere and thrown into the mix if the story was advanced in the process. However, most of the events in the story just stopped dead. It's the same type of writing that turned me away from Robert Jordan's 'Wheel of Time' series. Characters start a book in a certain predicament and finish the book in the same place. Stagnant is one way to describe it.  There is an even bigger problem to this book, however. It is BORING. I felt like I had to force my self to open this thing up and push my way through. I kept hoping that the story would turn around and be more like the first three books but it just didn't happen.
That's it.  I'm done.  I slogged my way through Feast of Crows and now the so called Dance.  What a waste of my time.  Did the real Mr.. Martin who wrote those wonderful first three books die?  Does he have a brain tumor?  I honestly don't care about the characters anymore.
This looks like a cheap knock-off production.  The cover image quality is very low resolution, there are no illustrations and the book layout/design suggests someone is trying to make a quick $.  As a book lover who holds classics in highest regards, I am beyond disappointed with this item.
This is a horrible book.  There are plot flaws everywhere, chronology errors, and not to mention not real advancement in the plot.  Seems like George is stalling his story line to publish more books in the series for more money.  Way to sell out GEORGE.
Very disappointing after the other four books. Too many new characters and not enough about others to tie the series up. What happened to Rickon ....
Not much happens in this book.  The one before it I probably read 200 pages as I skimmed through, for this one it was probably closer to 50.  There just wasn't anything worth stopping for as I skipped around in this empy ghost-town of a book.  On a more constructive note: The Name of the Wind, and The Wise Man's Fear are still great books you might enjoy instead.
It reads like one of the weakest books in the WoT series.  So much useless detail that does not move the plot forward.  Remember when you had a paper that was due in two weeks and you tried and tried to write something and couldn't come up with anything.  But you put in enough filler that if changed the spacing to 1.5 and picked a different font you would get your minimum 10 pages, 8 of which was just restating the question ?  Yeah that paper is pretty much this book.
I think after ten years Martin could and should have moved the plot along. After 5 years I couldn't remember some of the story details prior to book 4 and then memory faded after another 5 years getting to Dance with Dragons. So I listened to audio versions of books 1-3 as a refresher prior to book 4 and then again prior to to the release of Dragons plus reviewed book 4. I had high hopes for this book but about half-way through I realized the book wasn't going to go anywhere, so I skimmed to the end to see if I was right and sure enough it didn't. I couldn't believe it. This is all we get after 10 years? I'm glad I didn't waste any more time on this book. I mean there's a little plot development, but if it was a chess game, none of the major pieces really changed position or took a significant position. I'm pretty much done with the series at this point. Maybe ten years from now I may remember "hey I wonder what ever happened with Ice and Fire" and check reviews or buy a used book, but I won't be anxiously waiting for or purchasing the next installment. I've been fooled twice now with book 4 and 5 so shame on Martin. The first 3 books are very good. Book 4 and 5 really should have been compressed into the first half of what book four should have been. There's an incredible amount of detail that slows the book down and doesn't add much to the plot. I bought the Kindle version which was a high quality electronic version of the book and very good as far as the delivery format.
I have had this book for many months and simply cannot finish it.  I used to make it a point of honor to finish every book that I started and this one is more than I can do.  The first three books were great, hooked me on the story lines and characters and made me glad there was more to come.  I found the 4th (which I was able to just barely finish) and now this 5th in the series to be very disappointing.  To call this author "The American Tolkien" is undeserved.  Both series are weighty, complex and deep, but Martin's has become simply shallow, repetitious, disjointed and boring.  It's a shame really because it started out with such promise. I don't believe it will stand the test of time like "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings" have done.  I have enjoyed the first book's HBO adaption and am looking forward to next season.  However, just like with the books, I find I skim over (fast forward) the sex scenes which have become soft porn and frankly, boring.  I won't buy the subsequent books (if they are ever published) hot off the presses like I have previously until I know they are worth the read.
I stopped reading after 2 pages because the whining and superficiality of the characters in the beginning was too much for me.
I must confess that I really enjoyed the first three books of this series. I was disappointed with this book as well as its predecessor. They were mostly filler and history lessons. I kept reading this book because I was attached to Snow (The only main character with a sense of honor). After I finished it I regretted deeply the hours of my life that were wasted on book that didn't deserve them. This book feels more like a horror flick: crude and pointless violence with no depth.
This book is in such dire need of an editor, that even the Amazon page that is trying to sell the book has to chop out a chunk of the text.  Look at the section titled 'Editiorial Reviews' and click on 'See All Editorial Reviews'. The excerpt printed with permission has been edited to remove the entire sea voyage and the interactions with the cabin boy.  George R. R. Martin forgot go give me a reason to care about what happens in the world of Westeros.  I give a series two books to win me over. I figure in the first book, the writer can set up the world and to introduce the characters and plot lines. By the time I am finished with the second book, I should have an idea what the story is about.  After two books, Martin failed to produce a story.  He introduced loads of characters, but they aren't going anywhere.  The only unifying theme seems to be a competition for the throne of a country we have no reason to care about.  There is no reason to cheer for any of the characters to succeed.  At the end of two books, there was no story.  There were however multitudes of characters and unimportant sub-plots that ultimately add nothing to the overall narrative.  There was also a desperate need for some editorial discipline. Page after page is filled with unnecessary descriptions of things that you will not care about and don't add anything to the story. When seventeen people enter the room, he will name them all and describe them in excruciating detail along with their clothing and some past deed that you won't care about. So in the absence of an editor, I decided to act as one myself.  I skipped the third and fourth books to see if missing that much of the series would make a difference. It didn't. I was able to plod along with the lumbering non-storyline as if I hadn't missed a thing.  Tolkien told the story of a ring. His whole series was about the fate of that ring. You cared what happened to that ring. What ever happened at the end of that series you knew it would have a serious impact on the world.  In a song of ice and fire, there is no reason to care who sits the iron throne. The whole series is just a voyeuristic soap opera, which explains the unnecessary sexual descriptions that add nothing to the story.
What a waste of paper, the only interesting thing happens to Daenerys about page 700. Can't wait for the next one, I'll borrow it from the library and just read the end.
I suppose I could rant and rave about how long it took to write the fifth book of the series, or complain on much of the book was just plain fluff, but as an avid reader I would rather have quality than quantity and that sometimes bits and pieces of backstory are required.  However, of the five books so far, this was by far the most disappointing book.  The characters that I missed so much in book four have become boring in the fifth book. And while I am envious of GRRM's ability to create such imagery with words, it's too bad he couldn't have applied some of that creativity to increasing the storylines of his main characters.  New points of view are used as filler material but offer little or no value to the storyline.  If you haven't read or listened to this book yet, I recommend waiting till the next one comes out (assuming we live that long), you're not really missing much.
I was very disappointed in this book.  Way too many words and no plot movement at all.  I'm with Lucas in that I don't really care if there's more.  There are getting to be too many characters and nothing happening to the ones I really care about, the Stark's.  Some of the deeeetttail and nuances could be left for a movie or tv.
I really enjoyed Martin's previous books and was very much looking forward to this one also. After reading it, it is clear to me that he has stretched this series to the breaking point. A series that started as 3 books then went to 5....now 7 has been watered down by greed (IMHO) to get more books and more sales. I will not give away any details but the characters I once loved are now beyond care or I'm tired of them. The storyline is branched and confused that I no longer care. I do enjoy details but this is just adding pages to fill up a book. The `big' event near the end of the book was the breaker for me.  I really enjoyed this series and I'm disappointed with where it went. I will not be buying the next books and probably won't be wasting time reading them either. Sad, really.
I'm pretty sure I'm finished with GRRM. This book was painful to read, after the interminable wait and the disappointment of AFFC. Now there is a Martin renaissance involved with the HBO series, and the inability to escape his public profile is quite annoying.  The thing that made the first three books so good is Martin's skill as a shameless, master thief. His plots and characters came straight out of Celtic/Anglo/Eastern myth, legend, history and folklore. The greatest single element of the series, a certain wall, was of course inspired by the most famous historical structure in Scotland, and in the beginning, this was clever. A certain English war among multiple families for the reign of England was easily recognizable as well, and the way he tweaked this history to fit his fantasy narrative was interesting.  But it seems after the initial appropriation of existing source material, his well has run dry. I just don't think he himself knows what he's doing and where he's going anymore. Maybe he has to re-read his Joseph Campbell or his Latin and Greek master historians for more to pilfer, but whether that will make for a satisfying denouement and ending, (he's suppose to tie up all the loose ends he so needlessly unraveled in two or three more books?), is truly doubtful.
I am not rating this novel because of the amazing story, but because of the edition. Please do yourself a favor and do NOT buy any books from CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform. There's no format in this book. It literally looks like somebody found the story on some website and did a copy and paste. Even the cover is horrible, it is very low quality. If you want this book please search for "Little Women (Oxford World's Classics)" or Penguin's Classics. Those editions are 100x better and are also cheaper than the CIPP edition.
Martin took what started as an incredibly engaging saga with three dimensional characters and through the course of five books, reduced it to a pile of corpses and inane heraldry. In this book, characters who we spend thousands of pages to get to know are reduced to corpses or flat desultory characters. The language is limited and words like 'flay' appear everywhere without a seeming literary purpose. I became more and more frustrated as a read the last two books in this series and think the magic is over. I'm moving on to the next read and not looking back.
I actually got an autographed copy of A Dance With Dragons. GRRM came to the Tattered Cover in Denver for a book signing. I couldn't actually make it to the signing but was able to request an autographed copy. The next time I was in Denver, I picked it up and held it lovingly, afraid to mar the beautiful silver cover. As soon as I got back home, I started reading, expecting to devour the thing in one sitting (okay...may be 2!) much like I did the last Harry Potter book. I had my glass of water and plenty of snacks to sustain me during the hard-core reading expedition. I opened the book, expecting to be blown away by Martin's genius, gasping at the twists and turns, reveling in people getting their comeuppance, you know, all the things we have grown to love from Song of Ice and Fire.  :(  It actually took me MONTHS to get through Dance With Dragons, something that has never happened to me with any of the other books of the series even considering that I've read through the first four about seven times EACH! I never skip entire pages, nor leave the book sitting forgotten on the side of the couch collecting dust! NEVER!  The only thing that kept me going was the hope that SOMETHING would happen, something important or exciting, or dramatic. Talk about being left wanting. As I read this, I got the feeling that Martin had lost complete control of his story and that he was simply filling pages with unnecessary descriptions and such to try to hide the fact that the essential parts of Dance With Dragons could be boiled down to probably something more along the lines of a novella.  I'm sure I'll read the next book of the series but I won't be on the edge of my seat. I may even wait and check it out from the library, something I NEVER do with favorite books. I love buying them and having them on my shelf to read over and over again.
Books 1-3 were engrossing and broke so many accepted standards for fiction, in a good way. Book 4 was acceptable, but overly long for the actual plot(s) progression. Book 5 barely moves any plot forward and makes me wonder if GRRM has totally given up on the series as a whole. It seems more like he is simply writing to fulfill some publisher's obligation. Mark Twain once wrote a long letter and apologized that he didn't have time to write a short letter. That's how this book feels: GRRM didn't have time to write a a good sequel and ended up just rambling all over the place, including every thought he ever had about the story line. And to think I waited five years for this! I feel totally betrayed by the author.
Halfway through and I can go on no longer. Nothing has happened and judging from other reviews nothing continues to happen. The breaking point for me was one too many pages of useless whining from some female dwarf that Tyrion meets; yes, another throwaway minor character that GRRM seems strangely fascinated by. Sadly, I don't share his fascination, and no longer care about this series, which has degenerated into a strange combination of travelogue, torture porn, and food criticism.
For a 5 book series, with a huge cast of characters, the author seems as though he just gave up tying it all together. If the purpose was to suck me into a 6th book, forget it! But, it seemed like he just got tired. Adios George, I won't be seeing you in your next realm.
WELL, THIS IS A BOOK CRAMMED WITH THE TITULAR STUFF. MOST OF IT IS OF ITS TIME I.E: ANTIQUATED
Wow!  This was painful to listen to.  Roy Dotrice may have a wonderful speaking voice but his reading of Martin's work was excruciating to endure.  I've no idea where or why he got the idea that all of Martin's characters were either Scotish Highlanders or Cockney Louts - with the occasional poorly done Sydney Greenstreet imitation thrown in for good measure - but that's about all that populate his rendering.  As if that didn't rankle enough, the man vocalized all the women - and I do mean all the women - as 14th century Irish tavern wenches.  Even if they weren't smallfolk in the tale.  Had this been my first exposure to what Martin created then I'd have gone no further with it and stayed away from the rest in disgust.  You would think that as successful as Martin has been with this series that they would've gotten a more capable and fitting reader for his works.  I hope they do so in the future as Dotrice is really an awful choice here.
I had enjoyed this series from the start, but have been growing discontented with the repeating themes and lack of originality in the plots, characters and ideas presented.  Seeing one of the reviews that referenced Martin as the American Tolkien.... I definately do not agree with that.  The author increasingly resorts to the same characteristics.... kill off key characters that he has spent significant parts of previous books introducing and building.... reference: young wolf, stark, tywin lannister and many many other.  Then you have the characters that get brought back from the dead in one manner or another(Dondarion, Caitlin Stark, Benjen Stark, etc.), the characters that are maybe dead or we have been told are dead... and no, I won't spoil by listing the repeats in this book.  My opinion of book 4 and now book 5 is that the author is so caught up in the idea of multiple multiple books that he has ceased to move the story forward.  The same tricks and patterns come again and again. This book could be skipped and with an intro chapter cover all the real changes between book 4 and book 6.  I was disappointed and saddened by the poor quality of the book and the demise of the series.  I do not recommend it or any others by this author.  It lacks the originality and style of his early books.  I suggest you move on to someone with more original ideas or that is able to tell a story to a conclusion and then tell a second story
The plot doesn't move, it creeps in fits and starts.  I enjoyed Books 1-3 but Books 4 & 5 are long, hard slogs of Martin describing banners, castles, roads, religions, family histories, boats, clothing, et cetera ad infinitum, broken briefly and rarely with action.
This complete collection is missing 29 poems and 19 essays by Oscar Wilde - A far cry from complete.  I hope the publisher will get it together as this is unacceptable with the advertising saying "Complete Works of Oscar Wilde - Absolutely Everything."  There are other collections that have these items.  Chris Elliott
I read each of the books in this series as it was released, and have not bothered to read them again. I thoroughly enjoyed the first three and remember reading them gleefully from cover to cover. Even "Feast" had some fine moments, but it's slow pace was somewhat of a breather after the previous book which seemed to make sense, like a cool down after a long run. This book is like a nap after a cool down after a long run! I can't count the times I've had to re-read portions after I realized the words, paragraphs, and even chapters were so unremarkable I didn't even extract any useful information about the story from them. It's akin to driving home from work and then not remembering how you arrived at home, as if you were on autopilot. The constant descriptions of food served, lineage of minor characters, memories of major characters and endless repetition of catch phrases was painful, boring, and generally hard to slog through. I'm near the very end of this book now, and may have to start flaying my own fingers to remain awake enough to see it behind me! Perhaps after my dinner (lamprey pie, crackling pig, caramel preying mantis, brown bread, brown ale, brown wine, brownies...) I will finish this tome. I remember long ago when I was just a lad my great Uncle Morris Festicule (on my Father's side) who happened to own a tannery just South of Flintstark and enjoyed a good lathering by his Sister's maid after the Great Arbor Day celebration was traveling by...zzzzzzzz  Wha? Huh? Oh, forgive me, I just read another page...  Now for some fine red Sangria, none of that boxed crap!
To all who trusted George RR Martin, let this be your warning.  This book doesn't finish the saga, you will seethe with disgust when the book draws to a close.  At the end of "Feast for Crows,"  Martin apologizes to the reader, claiming that there was simply too much story to complete the tome in a single volume.  He promised the conclusion in a year, he said the audience would not be put off.  Five years later the new book comes to print, and is purchased by the thousands.  But the author lied, this story is not done, not a single issue is resolved, only many heroes and a few villains slain.  This author deceives us all, and I warn you not to fall into his trap.  There is no end to this series, only more and more complex plots, more characters and more teases.  Martin expands upon minor characters only to apparently grow bored, many chapters in, and slaughters them capriciously.  While I grant that Martin has a great gift he abuses us, he has no intention of completing this story.  It is his cash cow, his career - he has no respect for the reader.  I beg of you to NOT purchase this book.  Martin does not deserve your patronage, he is a liar, and believes the reader to be a fool.
I wanted to love this book.  I tried to love this book.  I have bragged for years about Martin being my favorite author.  They say your creative years go bye bye after age 40.  Indeed most nobel prizes are earned before the age of 35 (won much later).  Martin is surely aging and it shows.  If it hadn't been for the first 3 awesome books, I would have stopped reading after 100 pages.  Thank the heavens the library took it back! Nothing happened in the first 600 pages!  I literally kept waking up with the book in my lap. The dwarf.  Just kill him already instead of continually changing his personality.  and I get it, everyone under the Dragon queen is hercules.  She's the most brilliant teenager in the galaxy.  That whole story line has become sopho-moronic.  I'd rather read Harry Potter for such juvenile treatment of the readers intellect.  No more Martin, time to delve more into Pratchett.
It seems Mr Martin has been the victim of the Body Snatchers of Editors Hell..... Obviously he has been given the bait of earning yet more millions for creating what is a fascinating world but for gods sake get on with the tale!  Dragging it out so he can match Rowling for consecutive best sellers.  SO glad these books can be found for free.... Why can't he match the pace of the first three?  I am sure there is enough plot to do that and if not so what.  TEEL THE TALE MARTIN!
After getting "hooked" on the first 3 novels, I must say the 4th and now the 5th, were increasingly disappointing.  I won't be reading a 6th.  GRRM can be a masterful story-teller, but now, looks like he's resting on his laurels, and just churning for sales.  Won't work George - I really don't care now what happens to any of the characters I came to care so passionately about in the first 3 novels.  What a huge disappointment.
I read this for book club having felt guilty at not reading it as a young girl. It starts out slow and ends badly. This is a horrible message for young girls.  Or nice, hard working girls, for that matter.  I cannot believe this is a "classic" and can not say enough bad things about it, except that I have a visceral reaction so on some level the writing was engaging.
I was happy to revisit the book from my childhood, but just turning pages turns into a nightmare. From page one, swiping once sends me to the chapter page. I thought I might have tried too hard, and tried again. Went back to the beginning of chapter one, turned the page, and wound up on a random page that didn't match what I was reading one page one. It was like trying to read a book with the paper glued together.  Very glitched on my Kindle Fire.  I'll have to delete this and try to find one that works.
I hate it
I typically pride myself on elegantly written and thoughtful reviews, but this book just plain sucked. Almost nothing happens, and everything that does happen doesn't finish.
Apparently George no longer does.  I once saw a movie in which the protagonist is a revered novelist with fans eagerly awaiting his next book.  Unfortanately for them this author has created not a novel but a hideaus bloated thing he carries around in a box.  Fast forward, our hero accidentally dumps the box causing his multi-thousand limbed monstrosity to be scattered by the winds.  And then he goes on to redeem himself and his career with a much tighter better written story.  After reading these last two books, I wish GRRM could have done the same.  Adjectives that come to mind, bloated, long-winded and just plain puffy.  If I wrote like GRRM I might even use turgid. Does his editor even make recomendations? Or just hit it with the OK stamp as it rolls by? By far the biggest disappointment was Dany, I mean really, my teenage daughter doesn't have such angst and indecisiveness. Buy it out of curiosity but don't expect the same feeling from the leaner, meaner first three novels.  Disappointed does not begin to describe my feelings on this book.
Well, after six long years of waiting, we were finally treated to the book that author George R. R. Martin promised would be released only a year after that other colossal mess in the series, A Feast For Crows. Yes, most people know the story by now, Martin had to split A Feast For Crows into two books because he wrote too much, and promised that the next book would only be a year away after forcing readers to wait five years since the latest release in the series, A Storm of Swords.  A Feast For Crows was routinely criticized for the delay in publication, the expansion of the storyline, the plodding pace and lack of resolution. It seemed as if Martin has lost his way. In A Dance With Dragons, Martin tells the story of the major characters missing from the previous volume (mainly Jon Snow, Danaerys, and Tyrion Lannister) in a parallel time frame. It took eleven long years to finally hear from these characters again. Again, the same faults there were present in AFFC are also present here in ADWD. The story moves at a slow and plodding pace, with no hint of a conclusion being presented. The major characters do not do much of anything, nor is there much offered in the way of development. A major revelation is made early in the book which has the potential to change the course of the story, but it came straight out of left-field with absolutely no foreshadowing provided. It is not until towards the end of the book that you start seeing some conflict arise, but just when the book starts to become interesting a worth of more than a one-star review, the author abruptly cuts the story off and leaves us with cliffhangers that will more than likely not be answered until the next volume is released probably some six, seven, or maybe even eight years from now.  With all that being said there maybe hope yet. The nightmarish mistake of splitting AFFC into two parallel volumes is finally over. The next books in the series are supposed to be stand-alone volumes, and the hope is that we will see some push towards the climax and final conclusion of the series. After all, there are supposed to be only two more volumes left. Martin's first three books of the A Song of Fire and Ice series were excellent works which told an intriguing story and moved the plot forward. The past two volumes have been disappointments in unnecessary expansion which has muddied the storyline quite a bit. I do have faith that the final two books will finally move the story towards its ultimate conclusion. Hopefully, the worst is truly over.
Too many characters to keep track of after waiting entirely too long for the 5th book. The book beat to death unrelated characters and bogged down in its mirco plots.  The book was chopped to pieces. Maybe Martin will be able to bring it all together, but I doubt I'll live long enough to see that happen, what with his world book signing tours and missed deadlines. Will I buy his next book? NOPE! I'm done with Martin. I paid my money for the book and I was feel I was cheated.
compared to the first 3 this is a total waste of trees  characters and plot go absolutely no where. its like reading a commercial break
First off, thanks to HBO for turning many (myself included) onto this series.  The first three books are *amazing* and it's an enormous shame the two most recent additions are of such poor stock -this one especially.  I'm beginning to wonder if there is a Lucas-esque curse going around the scifi & fantasy genre where any works proceeding an epic first three are better-off ignored or completely forgotten.  Ironically Martin has several write-ups discussing Lucas on his "Not A Blog" (along with many more discussions of various merchandizing opportunities) yet he appears to be completely unaware of this disease's progress across his own body of work.  I'm very surprised such an experienced writer could reverse course so quickly.  We've gone from a tight, powerful story that was focused around meaningful action to pages upon pages (upon pages) describing food, bowel movements and clothing.  Martin winks at his readers so often with shout-outs like "you know nothing ...", "broke their fast", "it is known", etc. you'd think he has become stricken with a literary nervous twitch.  All this could be forgiven if Dance had made even a handful of meaningful plot advancements but the Song of Ice and Fire has practically ground to a halt.  We have pages and pages of characters doing things that have little to no impact on the overall story or which could be summarized for the sake of moving said story along.  But these books now appear to have little to nothing to do with purposeful plot and more to everything to do with building a merchandizing empire.  We might not see another book until 2016 but in the meantime we can drown ourselves in Game of Thrones miniatures, replica swords and video games ... blech.  Two last bits:  - Tyrion appears to have been replaced with someone else.  Gone are the great lines, come-backs and general wit that made many (myself included) fall in-love with a dwarf.  Perhaps a blow to the head in that wine barrel caused permanent damage, we'll never know.  R.I.P. Tyrion, I don't know what doppelganger replaced you but you no longer talk, act or think like the character I grew to know and love. - The Monty Python reference, "I fart in your general direction," made me want to throw this book out a window.
Looks like the name of the game is draw out the series. This book is about a thousand pages of just filler. It took five years to write this mess? Its just goes on and on and nothing happens. What does happen is usually bad. At first it was ok but now it just gets old and depressing. Whenever GRRM runs out of ideas he kills a Stark sorry it isn't clever anymore. Get yourself an editor and lighten it up.
I really, really enjoyed the first three books of this series. I was flabbergasted by how ramshackle and off Feast for Crows ended up being. I hoped for this book to be a return to how great the first three were... but I was sorely disappointed. Aside from killing some main characters, nothing happens. Oh, a few people go on journeys, they just never really arrive anywhere. The deaths that take place are rather meaningless compared to those in the first three books. It seems very clear to me that Martin had a plan for the first three and doesn't know what to do with the rest. These last two books read like material which he would have cut from the first three. I have no doubt that there will be readers out there eager for more books from George RR Martin--but I will not be one of them. I am bitter that I wasted time of my life that I will not get back reading A Dance with Dragons and Feast for Crows (thousands of pages and hours and hours of reading. I certainly will never read another of book in this series.
I can not think of the last time I have been so disappointed in a book. After the long wait, continuously checking Martins website to see if he had FINALLY finished writing this long awaited book. After thoroughly enjoying all the proceeding volumes. They were such excellent work! A Dance with Dragons was horrible. I think it was pointless to write, much less read! Why ruin such a good tale? Great expectation often leads to great disappointment.
I just wanted to add my one star review because this book doesn't deserve its three star rating. My wife was disgusted by the torture porn, and I was as well, not because I'm a prude but because it was too graphic and totally unnecessary. It didn't add to the story at all. GRRM has taken a page out of Robert Jordan's craft and is now turning his fans against him with endless discussion of food, finery, unnecessary descriptions of things that don't matter and pissing off the end of things. I quit the book after 200 pages, my wife quit after 150. Like others, we loved the first three books and the last two have been painful. How GRRM can repeat the mistake Robert Jordan made is beyond me.
It wasn't the complete.
This is a terrible edition (perhaps I got what I paid for, since this is one of the cheapest official Shakespeare editions available for Kindle). First of all, there are no glosses. If you don't know a particular Elizabethan word or phrase, you're out of luck. Second, the line breaks are wrong; there are glaring examples on every single page.  Third, and most important, THE TEXT IS RIDDLED WITH TYPOS. In Act 1 Scene 2 of Hamlet, tenable is mistyped as treble, and its is rendered as it. In the next scene, this temple waxes is written as his temple waxes, which is clearly wrong since hes talking about a female body (Ophelias, in particular). For an author who is worth reading and analyzing down to the level of single words, this is unpardonable sloppiness. These examples took me just minutes to find; to list all the mistakes in this version of Hamlet alone  much less in every included play  would take forever.  Caveat emptor.
Table of contents in the Kindle edition is a mess. Can't tell which play is which. Avoid.
For the love of cheese and rice, can somebody please tell me how in the world I get access to the supposedly free audio portion of this book? I bought it specifically for that purpose and can't find anything that would lead me to believe it exists.
This is the worst experience I've ever had. My parcel was left on the ground and ripped open. It's damn luck my book was not taken by others and I don't even know why nobody contacts me for this???? My phone number is on that parcel!!!!!! Apart from delivery, the book itself has a big problem. All letters are smudged thick and impossible to read. Worst experience ever. I don't expect myself to shop anything from Amazon.
The first 3 books were great, the 4 th and especially this last book is a dissapointment. Martin throws in new characters and new story lines at fast pace and these new characters and storylines are just not interesting. I have read all great fantasy writers but never had the feeling before that i want to skip chapters because nothing important happens in them anyway. Even the main characters are less interesting in this last book as the storyline is always the same: character x sets out to y, but oh something happens so x does not succeed in y so x is doing z and oh, someting happens ..... Etc. The inpredictability becomes predictable, almost no character in the book succeeds at a goal set out. All in all: too many characters, too many storylines that are not interesting, too little develpment of the main story. Editors have been sleeping...
Several well written reviews....Wish I would have read them... George Martin seems to have gotten lost in these books and cant find his way out... I won't read the rest I am too disgusted ... He needs to make some choices and no one seems to have told him... wrap it up for crying out loud!!!!
Waited forever for this book to come out to continue the fantastic story line.  Guess what  Nothing happens to actually advance the story or plot.  Waited how many years for this garbage?
This book is a lie and a scam. They literally scanned the online Gutenberg website for a total of TWO of Shakespeares plays. This is not the complete set and it is actually a violation of copyright with the Gutenberg Project. For the two plays it does give you, the font is so horrible and pale it is practically unreadable. Horrible buy.
The text of the book is mangled by the fact it was made using hard margins and doesn't start each speaker on a new line. As a result it's virtually impossible to read and would be a waste of money even it it were free.  Save your cash and go to Project Gutenberg, or at least a different version of the ebook.
Martin admits in the acknowledgments that this book "was three bitches and a bastard" to write. If you can withstand boredom on an epic scale, you can see why.  Too many characters, too little action, and far, far too much musing about the past or what may or may not happen in the future.  Very little of any consequence happens in over 900 pages.  I had hoped that after the "Crows" fiasco the author would get back on track.  Unfortunately, GRRM went even further off the rails.
I was late coming to this series and have read all five books one after another. Books 1,2 and 3 were brilliant and held so much promise. Book 4 seemed to wander around as if the author was struggling to find a coherent story to tell. Book 5 is no more than a continuance of that lack of cohesion, although the level of brutality is incomprehensively raised to a new and excessive level, and the reach-backs to explain things stated as fact in Book 4 were annoying and unnecessary. All in all, the series has lost all of its steam. It seems Martin has no idea where to take all of this next or how to end it. If there is a Book 6, I'll probably read it, though I expect no more than more disjointed and pointless minor episodes that have little or no connective tissue between them. Put simply, Martin can, and probably should, just put a fork in it, it's done.  As to the HBO series, there is a Season 2 on the way, and maybe a Season 3, but I doubt it will go much beyond that. There is no cohesive story that could be dramatized in Books 4 and 5. Maybe if Martin moves quickly and manages to complete a Book 6 that actually brings an end to the ramblings, some producer might see some value in combining Books 4,5 and 6 into one final season, but I doubt it.
I loved this series through the first three books, but this series has really gone the route of the Wheel Of Time series. Nothing happens in a thousand pages, I think I might be done with this last book.
This is an AWFULL printing of a great story.  There is no formatting; it is like someone clicked print on an ebook.  Seems very scam-like.  The cover art is pixelated.  There is no table of contents, no page breaking at chapter breaks, almost no formatting such that the text runs off into the margins and paragraphs are barely distinguishable.  The story is a classic, this publication is not what you want.
This is a collection of illegible photocopies.
This is NOT the annotated Norton Critical Edition as stated in the title. It is also NOT the satirical play talked about in the description mashing together many of Shakespeare's works. What it IS is a Project Gutenberg version of the World Library's Complete Works of William Shakespeare. There is no table of contents and absolutely no way to navigate the thing, so not really worth money.  If it had a table of contents, I would have considered keeping it, despite not being the version the title leads one to believe, but it is nothing but a pain, so we returned it.
The table of contents doesn't work, I've never seen anything as dumb for something like this. Don't bother with this.
I've just finished reading A Dance with Dragons, and decided to look at what other reviewers thought.  Unfortunately, it seems I am not the only reader whom has come to the belief that Martin is stretching out this story because absolutely none of the characters made any appreciable advance of the story.  The only plot lines we were left with were more cliffhangers.  I am unsure if Martin has become bored with this series (as another reviewer believes), or if he just does not know where he wants to go with this series (which is my belief), and thus keeping all his options open.  But for a book that required years to complete there was really nothing within it to excite me about waiting for the next volume.
Bore me once, shame on you; bore me twice, I'm an idiot.  I refuse to (a) pay the exorbitant eBook price for "Dragons", (b) get sucker punched again by hundreds and hundreds of pages of blathering meandering exercises in how-long-can-I-stretch-out-nothing-whatsoever-happening, and (c) waste precious and non-refundable hours of my life stuck in a book written by an author who has utterly lost his passion for his own story AND any respect for his clamoring fans. He doesn't care about shortchanging his readers, I certainly don't care to fork over money to help him do so.
I had never heard of this author, and was amazed at the sample, so purchased the first 4.  I didn't know at that point that the series didn't end with 4.  I was so caught up in it, I couldn't stop (not much else got done).  The non-end irritated me severely, but bought book 5, thinking all things would come together.  My first thought at the end was WTF??  Not only did it not end, it didn't get anywhere.  Now, I'm p*ssed at having spent my money on an endless rollercoaster ride, and even worse, I'm bored with it.  I'd like to know how it ends, but by the time the next book comes out, I'm going to have forgotten half the characters and won't care.  I'll save my money & get it from the library.  Maybe.
Terrible. The text is just a mish mash of lines from the original book.  The selection of sentences gives no thought to keeping the plot connected.  The illustrations are okay, not great.
Yes, this is a complete works of shakespeare. However, there is no table of contents and the search option does not work. This is fine if you want to read through all of it cover to cover, but if you're like me and get random urges to read a specific work, this version is not your friend. You have to click through the entire book to get to the play/sonnet you want. Better off with the free version.
This is NOT a "complete works." It starts with  The Sonnets and then begins the plays alphabetically with Alls Well That Ends Well and had a couple more after that. That's it. No table of contents or title page. a total of about three of the plays. They should take this off the shelf. It's NOT COMPLETE! BEWARE!
Binding sucks, replaced book and binding sucks slightly less
I felt this book was just awful and will now stop reading this series.  It offended me that reviewers thought him to be an American Tolkien when his writing and vision are so far from what Tolkien created.  Tolkien created a deep world full of challenges and magic and hope in what is good. Not to mention that his writing was transcendent.   Martin creates a brutal world where babies are eaten by wargs and murders are featured as main characters and morality has little meaning.  Who really cares what happens to many of these petty characters and who cares who wins the battle for this world?  Not me any longer.  Horrible and meaningless to me.  Nothing at all to compared with Tolkien.
the kindle version is almost impossible to look even the beginning of individual plays.....  it is an unsortable mess of an edition.
The title is a lie, very little of Shakespeare's work is in this book. It is a rip-off and I am going to try to get my money back!
I've seen these plots over and over again on TV. Not very original!
Seeing that the 5th book has not answerd a lot of questions, and after reading the 1st-4th books. The reviews have made me want to wait for the following books., I agree the 4th book really gpt bogged down, and if the 5th is worse, then I'd rather wait.
This is NOT a complete works. In fact it doesn't seem to have nearly any of his plays in it, and looks to have been printed from a PDF. DO NOT BUY THIS.
Not the advertised product.
Fan forever.  Read all the books and reread (for the 5th or 6th time) them again before A Dance with Dragons.  The first shock was that it didn't even seem to be written by the same author.  Did Mr. Martin use a ghost writer this time around?  No humor, no mystery, no point.  Did not even recognize the characters.  Start over, issue a retraction, rewrite book 5.
Don't bother because George Martin sure didn't bother to write anything worth reading. I can't imagine why an editor and the publisher accepted this work.
What a Mess !!! do not Buy
This is a joke right? I think someone is pulling my leg right? I don't see how Amazon allows this to be sold.
Buyers beware!  The title is completely misleading, and NO WHERE on the cover or anywhere else obvious does it tell you that this is only one volume of several.  It did not contain the plays I needed by a certain date, and it really is a very unnecessary omission to not have that on the cover - back or front - or a list of the plays it actually does have.
6 Years later, and the relative we bailed out of jail skips town.  This story does not dance, it drags and crawls, like so many paralyzed Stark children.  Sadly, we cannot skinchange out of our reader's bodies and go do something more interesting.  It's been said in many reviews, but this book does not progress nearly enough to be so long.  At this point there are more plot lines and viewpoints than Freys, and the chapters begin to stink of cliffhanger in the same predictable manner as a B-Team Law and Order.  Some of the characters begin behaving in a manner very unlike themselves, and not in a good "I'm developing and growing" kind of way, but in a bad "I'm stalling because I've killed off too many people to fast" kind of way.  All joking aside, it sometimes makes you feel the presence of the author a bit too much for a fantasy book.  No cryptic promise of a quick continuation next year at the end of this one.  Right now I'm just hoping that I won't need bifocals before the last book comes out.  However, I suppose I'm only venting frustration, as the only other option would be to stop reading the story, and you must read the book to continue.  However, until a cheap paperback version comes out, a set of cliffsnotes might suffice...
Some people think that adding water to the soup just makes more soup... they are wrong, in the end, the bowl has less soup. This book is mostly water...as much as the previous one.  I'm still hopeful that GRR will tighten the series up for the next two; otherwise it will be s slow and painful read until the end.
This is a large 8x11 sized book. I found it hard to hold while reading.  The story itself is wonderful!
Poor abridgement of this wonderful book.
I really wish the reviews for all the different copies of this book were not lumped together. I ended up with a copy that is NOT the complete works of William Shakepeare. Mine has a table of contents that lists something, I guess some obscure things Shakepeare wrote, with page numbers. Funny thing did I say page numbers... Well there are none not one single page number, no title heading, no title page, no page break, or any way to navigate in this print book. This looks like a joke slap together photocopy not a legally copy righted booked. Amazon you should be ashamed. Yes I am keeping it as yet another reminder to be more careful what I buy on Amazon.
Navigating a collection of this size on a Kindle is impossible without a functional table of contents.  This edition lacks that basic feature, and is, therefore, functionally useless.  Save your dollar and look elsewhere, this collection isn't worth even the pennies they charge for it.
Horrible edition.  No table of contents.  Impossible to navigate.  Atrocious print type.  And worst of all, fraudulently represented as "Complete" when this edition is most assuredly INCOMPLETE.  Save yourself the trouble of returning it and don't buy this edition in the first place.
This is nothing more than a download of freely available text, which would be ok if the publisher had taken the time to do some minimal formatting, such as pagination and table of contents.  As it is, the  so-called table of contents is wrong, there are no page numbers, and one play flows into the next literally in the same paragraph.  What a rip-off by a very lazy "publisher".
print is super small ,not numbered... not the "works" ..contains 4 stories ...don't get this
The kindle version doesn't even have a content table with links, and it's very hard to switch between parts.
This is easily the weakest of the 5 books.  Even AFFC was more enjoyable, as it was at least interesting to watch Cersei unravel everything Tywin and Tyrion had built.  As has been stated before, this book is very weak on plot development.  I heard the author say that if plot development is all you care about, you should just read the synopsis.  That the books are about character development.  That's fine, but character development and plot go hand in hand, how can a character develop without anything happening around them?  There were so many chapters where I got to the end and asked myself if anything happened with the plot, or any character development, and there just wasn't.  The example that sticks out in my mind is the wedding of Ramsay Bolton to Jeyne Poole.  All that happened was they got married, but it's one of the longer chapters in the book.  Nothing developed with the characters, reek was still weak, Ramsay was still a dick and Jeyne was still scared.  The only thing accomplished was making the reader uncomfortable with explicit descriptions of sex and torture.  I have absolutely no moral qualms about what was written, but given that it did nothing for plot or character development it just left me frustrated.  Even the characters' motivations I find myself questioning.  Why does Daenerys care so much about slaves?  Why is she so apprehensive about using her Dragons?  I understand why someone today would have these concerns, but in the context of the world Martin has created I don't understand it.  It's like he just decided to create a character with modern values.  It's hard for me to care and understand Jon's motivation to get as many people as possible to man the wall when there's been nothing all that scary revealed.  I'm five books in and I still haven't seen an "Other".  Just some wights which apparently die really easily if you stab them with glass.  Having read all five books consecutively I find myself getting tired of the same phrases used over and over.  How many times do I have to read "little and less", "much and more", "dark wings, dark words", "words are wind", "you know nothing, Jon Snow", and "where do whores go?"  It makes me cringe every time I see them.  But just as Martin overuses these phrases, he also overuses the same plot devices.  GRRMs use of the cliffhanger and killing of main characters reminds me of M. Night Shyamalamalans twists.  It's so ridiculous that he has to include a single Jaime chapter in this book just so that he can end his storyline on a cliffhanger instead of where we left him in AFFC.  This book and AFFC would have been much better if kept a single volume with all the fat trimmed out.
I have read the first 4 books but have not read this one.  And I do not plan on reading it.  I agree with the critique here about this series.  The first 3 books were very good but book 4 was long winded and disappointing.  From the reviews I have read here book 5 is in the same vein as book 4.  I am done with this series.  I am very disappointed with book 4 and will not invest any more of my time and money. If book 6 gets great reviews maybe I'll jump back in.
I first heard about Song of Ice and Fire at about the time the Game of Thrones HBO miniseries came out.  I picked up the book hoping for an entertaining read, and was not disappointed.  What first drew me in was the discovery of the dire wolf cubs and the way they seemed to be destined to be the companion of each Stark child.  Unfortunately, that storyline was soon abandoned, with either the cubs being killed or driven off.  Those that have remained have been delegated to purely background status in the storyline.  "Game of Thrones" is certainly the best read of the bunch; the series has gone downhill from there.  After the first chapter or two of "Dance With Dragons" I found myself mostly skimming through the pages looking for something interesting to happen sandwiched between very lengthy (read boring) descriptive passages that go on for pages and pages and the introduction of new (and uninteresting) characters who seem to have been produced so that the author can avoid continuing with the actual story.  I probably ended up skimming through half the book.  I'll not reveal what happens in the final chapter for those who have not yet read the book, but suffice to say that the only main character still remaining in which I had any real interest appears to have been killed off as well.  I have read elsewhere that these books have been compared to the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy.  Having read all of Mr. Tolkien's books, I would have to say that Mr. Martin's books don't even come close.  To sum up in a few words: these books, including "Dance With Dragons", are basically just extremely graphic sexual pornography and violence pornography masquerading  as literature.  Save your money and give them all a pass.
I will not suffer the "Jordan Syndrom" twice in my life!  I will watch the show on HBO for the next 20 years to see how this ends.
Was not a good copy of the book. Cover picture was blurry, and the whole book was just poorly printed.
There is no actual table of contents for this collection...just a list showing Histories, Comedies, Tragedies, etc...you must go thru page by page in each category if you want to read other than the first item under each category.  The book is very cheap.  I got what I paid for; a sloppy poorly formatted book that clogs up my storage.  Amazon should remove this from the library.  I would rate it as 0 but that isn't an option.  BY CHEAP DIGITAL BOOKS ONLY WITH THE GREATEST POSSIBLE PRECAUTION AND A CAREFUL INSPECTION OF THE REVIEWS.  THERE SEEMS NO WAY TO GET THEM COMPLETELY OFF YOUR STORAGE.  THEY STAY IN THE CLOUD CLOGGING IT LIKE SPACE DEBRIS.
the book is poorly organized, and reader is unable to quickly locate a particular work within the book
It does not have a table of contents. I do not get around fairly well because of this. I would not suggest anyone get THIS version of the book.
I was so disappointed with this book.  I was a huge Song of Ice and Fire fan, but after Feast for Crows and Dance with Dragons I doubt if I will read another Martin book again.  The content issues just get worse, and the story is boring.
Would've been an appropriate title.  I am so disgusted with myself for the amount of time I wasted reading this book. I can't even imagine how disgusted George Martin must be with himself for the amount of time he wasted writing it.  Jon Snow dead? Who knows, who cares any more. I'm finished with this series. Mr. Martin, do us a favor and stop writing - it's unbearable.
The title is terribly misleading. This is not the "complete works." It only includes the sonnets and longer poems. My daughter got it for school ans it definitely doesn't have what she needs for her class.
DO NOT BUY THE KINDLE EDITION!  The Kindle edition does not even have a Table of Contents.  You want to read Romeo and Juliet - good luck in even finding it.  The hard-copy version might be OK - I don't have a copy to check.  But this kindle edition is a mess.  If you want to read Shakespeare on Kindle, get "William Shakespeare: The Complete Works" based on the 1974 Riverside Edition published by Eireann Press.  That is the one I bought after ordering this one and finding how awful it is.
Surprised by such a scam via Amazon.  I could deal with the ultra-small print, lack of page numbers, etc, but the fact the book is titled the "complete" works of shakespeare and only contains some sonnets and a couple of plays (even contradicting the TOC, which lists just 5 plays, its an unusual scam.  Meaning, assuming this is "value" priced to begin with, copying/printing all of the plays in black & white microfiche (like the bits that were included) may have cost the "publisher" another $1-2. Actually, this looks like a partial copy from an ebook (see pictures), so it really is a matter of extreme laziness (I mean, if you are going to do it, at least copy the entire thing, not just the copyright dislaimer and a few sonnets!).
Useless due to kindle version having no table of contents.  Don't bother.
This edition quite clearly states that it is the complete works of Shakespeare.  But it is NOT.  It only contains Hamlet, Antony and Cleopatra, The Tragedy of Coriolanus, The Tragedy of Julius Caesar, King Lear, MacBeth, Othello, Romeo and Juliet, Timon of Athens and Titus Andronicus.  AND THAT'S IT.  Amazon, you need to pull this vendor off of your site.  This is false advertising.  I'm so ticked off, because I want the full works of Shakespeare on my Kindle, but now I don't know who to trust because they may be pulling the same scam.
I am very disappointed of this fifth book. I gave GRRM the chance with his forth slow and stumbling book because he describe his intention to have 2 books with simultaneous chronological stories just separated by geography. Many story lines unfinished more created...  What it seem to me this last books, 4 and 5,  were just a way to make the story longer just to sell more. I had mix feelings while I enjoy parts of the book it dragged painfully. I will not recommend this book. GRRM became Terry Goodkind and his 13 book of the Seeker... An story that could have been so much more just as this one.  My last hope is Christopher Paolini...  Now we have to wait 5 years for the 6th book... My expectations are not high.
I've had enough. After seeing the HBO version on television, I read the first four books of this series . I was hoping for some sort of conclusion to the many cliffhangers, what I got was an insult to my ability to read. Writers shouldn't forsake and abuse their audience with such blatant and callus disregard. Storytelling is an art with which this writer is completely unfamiliar; it borders on negligence. I'll not pay for another volume. I'll not watch another episode. This author talks endlessly about rape, his preoccupation with the subject is apparent in the way he mistreats his readers - I've been raped and I'll be damned if I'll willingly submit to it again.
There are so many well written reviews of this disappointing tome, I probably don't even need to add mine to the (steaming) pile.  I think that speaks to just how horribly wrong this book veered, no plummeted, into boring, long-winded, and futile storytelling.  If there could be a sixth bok as well written as the first three, you could very easily skip 4, and especially this one 5, and pick back up without torturing yourself.  But that's a big if...it will require a tremendous change of energy and inspiration from the author, and probably an entirely new editing staff.  One aspect that really bothered me, as other reviewers have mentioned, was the growing use of sexist comments and gratuitous S&M sex scenes.  I mean, I'm an adult, I have no problem with a little raunchiness, but come on!  Apart from Arya, who was certainly not spared because of her age but thankfully was spared, EVERY SINGLE FEMALE character in DWD was reduced to a sexual object at some point.  And the language was far more sexist, violently sexual, and graphic than it was in earlier books.  Again, I'm not a prude, but it definitely turned me against the author...I've gone from envisioning him as an amazingly imaginative grandfather guy to a creepy sex offender.  I used to recommend his books to others, but will not anymore...I would be embarrassed to be the person who recommended this series, given the horrible cesspool it has devolved into.
The first three books had a plot and just a few point of view characters. Now it is a meandering mess with too many pov's and not plot with beginning/middle/end. I enjoyed this book, but what started as a great series at the pantheon of fantasy fiction is now simply enjoyable.
I am glad I am reading this on my Kindle cause when I get bored I can fast forward real fast or switch to another book. I am more content with the HBO program but again after reading 5 books, I am hoping that HBO melds them all together and make a good series. I at times feel like Martin intended to see how long he could drag this story out,before people started to complain. An author can be disrespectful to his audience and I am feeling that way.
This is not the complete works. There are 2 plays in this dinky little book. It does have a nice selection of sonnets, but I can't even tell you if it's that collection is complete. After reading positive reviews I ignored the product description, which says the book has only 244 pages - not nearly enough to print all of Shakespeare's plays. Very disappointed.
If you could by this book by the page and only get the last 4 or 5 chapters then it would be worth the money. Nothing really happens in this book and I can't see how the trivial events that do happen really connect to the main plot. As much as I love this series, if the next book does what this one did, then I am done with it. 75% of this book is about the least likable/important characters. I'm honestly not sure I'm going to be interested 5 years from now when "The Winds of Winter" comes out.
After making it through half the book without a single interesting chapter, my tons of free time got the best of me and I finished it. Was it worth it? Yes. Why? So I could confirm the conclusion I've been coming to since the previous 2 books. Martin somehow pulled off a hit with his first book, but past that, he's a lazy, mediocre author with a penchant for making the reader suffer.
Do not buy the Kindle version of this book.  There is no table of contents and no way to navigate the actual book.  Just 40,000 pages in whatever order.
This is a very incomplete work.
Terrible table of contents. No way to go directly to the plays you wish. Buy a different version. An organizational shame
Perhaps there was some kind of mistake, but there was NO table of contents (absolutely necessary, needless to say) and NO way of navigating other than go through the entire works of Shakespeare page by page.
George R. R. Martin is endlessly, pathologically inventive. Reading this series is like increasing the resolution of a fractal image - there is more and more at every level. Reading this series is like reading Pynchon's Gravity Rainbow - it is a grueling experiment concocted by a mad scientist - but to what end? There is no way that this series is going to conclude - have you seen Martin? He's heading for a stroke, a heart attack or early dementia - there is no way he is going to finish "A Song of Ice and Fire" and then what will happen to us? For Gods' sake, wrap this thing up! Release me! I can't take anymore.
For die-hard George R.R. Martin fans, the quality hasn't slipped during the long wait for "A Dance with Dragons". With the return of popular characters missing from "A Feast for Crows" and the introduction of new points of view, fans of his previous book will find the newest offering an improvement. Martin even manages to answer a lingering question or two. But problems remain. Of all the points of view, only a handful captivate. Of the others, words spent on world-building (and endless lists) give the work bulk, but not much else. Huge swaths of this book detail people traveling across great distances while the plot walks down the driveway to check the mail. Characterization and world-building? Sure. But it reeks of filler. Phrases old and new are repeated over and over and over again. You can make a wonderful drinking game of the audio-book. One sip for "You know nothing, Jon Snow", two for "Nuncle" and finish the drink on "Words are wind". Martin likens his writing to gardening. Indeed. He overmulched the perennials, forgot to cut back the liriope and hasn't trimmed the hedges in a decade. Wonderful flowers remain, but they need sunlight and Martin left his pruning shears in the shed.
This is for the Complete Works of William Shakespeare as published by CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform. All I have to say is thank God this cost as little as it did because it's a colossal piece of trash. Some bloke with a printer and a degree from community college must have put this together. "Complete" is a blatant lie void of effort towards correction, "Works" is a poor choice of words for the ill-formatted and distasteful selection inside, and frankly I'm not sure Shakespeare would have wanted anything to do with this. Would be returning, but honestly I'd feel better in my soul watching this book burn so that's what I'm going to do with it.
..and for that alone  totally worthless. Bought today, and deleted from the  device within hours. Thanks Amazon.
this was horrible, and maybe illegal! it had only a few sonnets and troilus and cressida. it looked as if the pages were printed out from the internet. do not buy!!
Never wasted  $.99 as badly even when losing a dollar in a slot machine! Terrible, non-user friendly edition.  Just try finding a usable Table of Content for starters.  Went for 'Ultimate Shakespeare' instead. For a dollar more...  it's AWESOME!!
I've been down this road before and I'm about to turn around.  I told myself to keep reading WoT despite a few slow and tedious books (take your pick of 4,5,6 or 7). But, with reservation, I continued on with book after book, hoping it would return to the form of the first books.  The slow-in-coming-but-inevitable realization that I was wasting too much brain space on an endless series were the good guys never die permanently and the plot threads are WAY too long eventually stopped me from finishing the series.  I have learned from this experience and that won't happen again.  One more stinker in the series and I'm out. But thanks for the first 4 books  - They REALLY rocked!
I really enjoyed the 1st novel in this series but have since then suspected that Mr Martin is simply padding out a concept to fulfill his 7 book deal.  Having read the latest book i am now fully convinced this is the case , going in circles , no progress and killing off characters who have simply expired their sell by dates.  I doubt Mr Martin will be too concerned by this review but know that i will not be buying number 6 or 7 , and trust that the rule of reducing revenues has some meaning to the publishers..
I'm not reviewing the book on its merits, although I agree that the book drones on and on. I'm simply getting tired of the series and resentful of the fact that I need to devote so much time to get to the end of the story. I actually only started reading the books after seeing Game of Thrones on HBO. I loved it and bought the boxed set - over 3400 pages - and read happily thinking to find out what happens at the end, only to be disappointed. But then this 5th book came out shortly after, with another 1100 pages(!) and this is also not the end?! Who knows how long before the next book emerges! I think it shows an amazing conceit on the part of the author to expect his readers to hang on for so long for the payoff to the story. So much could have been told in half the space. The chapters are incredibly long with no breaks, so you need to have the time to sit and read for a while. I'm tired of reading descriptions about the food, the banners, the peeing and shaking off.... enough already. It's getting old and I STILL don't know what happens, and I'm starting to not care. What a shame.
GRRM has obviously taken a leaf out of Robert Jordan's book.  Drag the series out as long as possible and make more money.  I am about half way through this current book and virtually nothing has happened.  Probably will not bother with further volumes as I am losing interest very quickly and may not even finish this one.
This product is not the complete works, or at least not what you would assume to be the complete works. It is a printing of various William Shakespeare content form Project Gutenberg. It contains sonnets 1 - 154, and "Alls Well That Ends Well". There's no title page, no publisher information, etc.  My favorite excerpt, which can be found in multiple places: " <<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE WITH PERMISSION. ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED COMMERCIALLY. PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>> "  At least it was cheap. I'll regift it to my friends with non-uniform table legs.
The majority of As You Like It and the first half of Hamlet are missing!!! Pages 659-690! The printer left out the pages--my book is new and intact. Rubbish.
If you are new to this series, a word of advice, read the first three and stop. That is where the story really ends, after that the genius dies, the author is hopelessly lot in the morass, and the readers and characters all get sucked down with him.  After the first three books,everyone gradually develops a collective amnesia. They forget their own characters along with just about everything else that ever made them real or interesting. At some point in their past, they may have been motivated to seek a goal, but what it was, why they wanted it, how they were going to attain it, that has all long been lost. Instead they now wander around forever in their own little circles, bogging further and further down with each step. Probably their weariness came from having to endure hearing the entire life story and food preferences of every bit player they encounter in the story. No wait, that was me!  I feel so sad writing this, because I absolutely loved George Martin's writing when i first discovered him, the "Aces" series, Fevre Dream, the first three books in the "Thrones", i devoured them and counted the days when there would be more. When "Feast" turned out to be rubbish, I thought it an aberration, I was more than ready to forgive. I believed his explanation, he had so much to say that it was hard to move it all forward. Now that I have read "Dance", I see it is actually the opposite, he has so little to say that he is compelled to add story after story and worthless detail after worthless detail in a vain attempt to find him way back. But with "Dance" I have to conclude, he is lost, the characters are lost and reading more is just trampling on their corpses.  I wanted to settle in for a good long read, to savour each line and lose myself in his world, but 1000 pages of nothing was not worth the time lost out of my life. There was one momentary flash of the old storyteller, the section describing the greenseers brought hope back for a moment, but it was not to be, maybe someone else wrote that part for him. Quickly following were jarring contemporary references and constant resorts to laughably vulgar writing. This book is nowhere near Tolkien's league,  Harold Robbins and Sidney Sheldon, though, now that is the right company.
I was really excited when this came out.  Then I started to read it.  There are a few great chapters but the bad ones were really bad.  EVERY Dany chapter was the same.  I just dreaded when I saw her chapter come up.  Then I came to the last 100 pages.  I won't put spoilers, but I did want to throw the book against a wall at one point.  Book was way to long and just dragged.
I was so looking forward to this book but found it tedious to read.  And I was extremely confused with the non-ending.  Are there more books to follow?  Let me know now how many more are expected before he finishes the series.  Even Harry Potter had an end in sight.
From the context of the art, title, and description, I believed that the "free" audiobook where Kindle Audiobook when in fact it's simply an embedded hyperlink in the text that redirects to a third party which provides free Audiobook downloads for public domain works. So I ended up paying $2 for a hyperlink to content which was already free, embedded with text that I could already download for free directly from Amazon.
This is a review of "The Actually Complete Shakespeare ..." on Kindle. Amazon seems to moosh all reviews of complete Shakespeare collections together. The ACS gives you everything for less than a buck -- or so I assume, because there's no way to know without reading it all. No table of contents, no notes, no way to find anything easily, or even with difficulty. And even when you do find a particular play, it's typeset in a way that makes it annoyingly difficult to read. And did I mention that there are NONE of the notes that make Shakespeare comprehensible to modern readers? OK, what was I expecting for a buck? But still. Be careful!
Unfortunately, I was not expecting an 8 1/2 x 11 size notebook!  I returned this one and purchased a local copy.
I can get over the feasting...the long descriptions of interesting food and drink.  I can even get over the multiplying POV's (hey, i stuck with Jordan through all of WoT).  What drove me crazy was the reuse of the same phrases throughout the book.  "Words are wind" "you know nothing Jon" "though I'm an innocent girl" please, please, PLEASE, if we are going to take a painstaking trek through your new fantasy world, show us some more cultures with different sayings that aren't old after 10 chapters.
I enjoyed the first book of A Song of Ice and Fire when it came out. There were interesting characters, potential for some intriguing plot developments, and Martin's facility with the English language was enjoyable to read.  The second book was less enjoyable, but still worth reading. The characters who I liked mostly seemed to be being killed off and the plots seemed to all be about who was currently betraying whom, but it was still well written. The third book was more of the same.  I probably wouldn't have even bought A Dance of Dragons at all, except that, for some reason, I thought it was going to be the last book in the series. It apparently isn't for George R. R. Martin, but it is for me. I made it about 1/3 of the way through and have decided it is not worth the time and effort to finish it, and I always finish the books I start! The plots, such as they are, are going nowhere. The characters, even the few who are left that I originally liked, are now no longer people I have any interest in spending time with. Over all, the book seems to be an attempt to write the most gloomy, depressing fantasy tome possible and at that it succeeds.  All in all, A Song of Ice and Fire is no longer going to be taking up room on my bookshelves.
Can't start reading until I get new glasses or a very large magnifying glass
Don't by kindle version. It is NOT annotated
This series has become the greatest literary dissapointment that I have experienced.  The first three books were so good and set expectation so high that the series was destined to be the best fantasy series ever.  Book four was not very good, but I felt Mr. Martin had simply missed the mark and would recover in book five.  He did not.  This book was even worse.  The only chapters worth reading for Jon and Dany are the last two for each, otherwise absolutely nothing of significance happens to them for 800 pages.  Tyrion....worse, nothing of significance happens to him at all.  Lesser characters....OK, a couple interesting chapters.  Is Mr. Martin distracted? Maybe. Does he need a new editer? Yes!!  This book could have been 200 pages.  And to wait so long for Dance only to have it turn out to be a dud, just adds to the anger and dissapointment of a series that had such promise. I will read the first 200 pages of the next book and if it isn't as good as the first three books, I'm done.  I'll just read the synopsis on Wikipedia. Sad.
It is impossible to do anything here but read through 37,000 pages. There is no index or table of contents
Bought this in paper...sorry I did. A five year wait for this? I was reminded of one of those half-azzed Star Trek movies they did just to keep the series going. Even soap operas kill off people and end storylines. This book could have been okay if he'd had the balls to complete some threads and not just worried about the next payday. We aren't all morons out here, George.
Very dark writing with no story telling. And masses of secondary characters as fillers. So disappointed. Dangit. Hard to believe the book was written by the same guy.
I can only second what many reviewers before me have remarked upon: the book is far too long, too wordy and too repetitive to stand in comparison to volume one to three.  I think GRRM just isn't the same personality anymore that he was when working on the first three volumes. And although he always assured us that he was diligently working on AFFC first and then ADWD, I think he has done about diddly squat in all that time. You just had to look at his NAB every few weeks: "NFL this and conventions that..." that's all it was about. It's all his life is about now, I suppose.  Then when that HBO deal came along, the cunning salesman acknowledged an opportunity: "Hey, lots of additional publicity!" So, for the first time in years he sat down to really work a bit on ADWD, only to find out that he had changed so much he couldn't get access anymore to his own creation.  To remedy that he wrote. A lot. Trying to immerse himself in the world and characters his readers wanted to hear about. Sadly, all his efforts turned out to be just finger exercises. He doesn't have a grip on the characters as he created them anymore. That's why they all behave so strangely out of character, imo.  And he seemingly has no idea where to take the story he started. It was all clear once, but now it's muddled in his own mind.  That's what outlines are good for, but GRRM is a "freewriter", "a gardener, not an architect". Moreover it's been so long, many readers have guessed the originally planned grand revelation: J=R+L. So, out of the lunch box comes young Griff, just to show these pesky readers that GRRM is alwasy good for a surprise. It all feels forced, added on and not thought through.  Even the prose is different now, much coarser, many and more repetitions, archaic expressions and catch phrases.  I didn't buy this one, in fact I cancelled my 2008 pre-order as soon as I was informed the book would be ready for delivery in two weeks time, so appalled was I by his conduct on the NAB (water damaged goods, anyone?). And I won't bother with the next if ever it should come out in my lifetime. I don't want the characters and storyline that I once loved spoiled anymore in my mind than he has managed to do with this clunker of a book.
Martin's work has always wallowed in depression and darkness, but his storytelling ability always kept me turning the pages. With "A Dance of Dragons" he has finally jumped the shark. Here the story bogs down in a surfeit of obscure names and places and endless minutiae while maintaining the usual level of degradation and perversion. I'm beginning to realize that there won't be a satisfying (let alone "happy") ending to this series. Why wade through thousands more pages of this mind-numbing Bataan death march when you know it will simply involve more innocents being raped, tortured, and murdered in nasty ways? Why continue to read about characters you hate after all the characters you might actually care about have been whacked? Sorry, but my masochism has its limits. Life is too short. Screw you George. I'm done.
I'm returning this for 2 reasons, it's a paper back when I ordered a hardcover, and the print is so small I can't begin to read it! I should have stuck with my Oxford Addition.
The reviews for this were for the Bevington edition with annotations, modernized spelling, intros to each play, etc. This ain't it. There are none of those extras, and the spelling is about as easy to read as middle English Chaucer. I may not be able to figure out how to get my $2.18 back, but I'm removing this  offal from my phone. It's amazing how Amazon gets away with using reviews from a good addition to sell a poor one. I realized moments after writing this review that there are only three plays in the whole book - you've got to be kidding me!
There is no way to locate any particular work.  the table of contents, for all intents, does not exist.  All the breaks between works have the same heading @public@whost etc.
Worse then even the last book and that is saying something. Martin is trying to stretch this series out to make as much money as possible and he is not worried about quality. He delayed the book for so long only because he wanted to cash in on the HBO show. Great show just like the first 3 books but these last two books should be tossed in the trash. I will never buy another Martin book again unless I read the reviews first and they say it is stellar because this is a joke. Shame on you George.
Clearly George Martin is being paid by the word.  What else could account for a 1000-page novel, with more emphasis on describing food, clothing, hairstyles, scenery, and the genealogy of every plant the allegedly-main characters traipse by, on their slog from nowhere (the location the plot reached at the end of A Feast for Crows) to nowhere (the plot's final resting place)?  The edition of A Feast for Crows that I read (from Amazon's box set of the first four novels) included an apology for that novel's lack of focus and plot development, with a promise that A Dance with Dragons would make up for it.  Consider that promise well and truly broken.  Rather than plot advancement, we get a second helping of Feast's emphasis on who wore what, the trivialities on which they pondered as the trudge through exhaustively-described scenery, and a glutton's enthusiastic recounting of every dish at every meal, what it looked, smelled and tasted like, where the ingredients came from and how they were prepared, ad infinitum.  One suspects that the author was perpetually hungry while writing--and perhaps should have scheduled his time at the typewriter after his meals, instead of before them.  There's also the (now-formulaic) build-up of some character's plans, his surmounting obstacle after obstacle, drawing ever-nearer to success, and then -BOOM- death from out of nowhere.  Gratuitously killing off main characters just for the shock value ceased to entertain after about book 2.  I'm grateful that I hadn't spent much time waiting for the release of this book, having been introduced to the series by HBO and having read all five in quick succession.  If I were one of the unlucky early-adopters who waited for years and years to get book 4 and then book 5, I might well be organizing some sort of sit-in protest at Bantam, until they agreed to handcuff no less than two rigorous editors to the author from now until the series is completed.  As it is, I am unlikely to buy any further books in the series; I'll simply wait until others have bought, read, and been disappointed by them, and then borrow their copies.
Let me preface by saying that I am a long time reader of this series. I even have a first edition GoT that I bought when it first came out at the bookstore (to read,not as a collectable).  So, let the review begin. This book is very slow. The plot goes nowhere. If you look at the end of SoS, to the end of ADwD, very little has happened/changed.(If my review was ADwD I would have taken 10 pages to say the above)  Many of you are so invested in the series (like me), that you will feel you have to read this book. Do yourself a favor and check it out at the library, borrow it from a friend, or support your local used book store. Just don't waste your money.
Returned for lack of table of contents or any way to jump from one play / sonnet / etc. to the next.
I admit, I quit reading halfway through. The drivel and fillers, the subpar writing, the lack of  plot progression and new boring POVs, made it clear to me I was taken for a ride.  I believe some of the chapters were crafted by Martin (e.g. Reek), while most were penned by a ghost writer. Hence, the poor writing quality and far too many characters losing their erstwhile flavor (Arya being submissive? Give me a break...Dany a google-eyed teenager? Only if you are a mediocre ghost writer...)  Bottom like: Martin is merely cashing on his success. There's a good possibility this book is the last in this series, since he apparently lost interest, or simply cannot finish it up. To me, however, it makes no difference; I'm off this gone-astray, wobbly wagon.
Martin continues his tradition of dragging out plotlines to the point where you want to skip whole chapters to find something significant happening.  His writing skills are excellent, but I've finally realized I don't care for his storytelling.  With so many point-of-view characters it's no wonder that his books crawl.  I have come to believe that he keeps adding characters simply because he runs out of people to kill.  I was so disappointed in the ending, after taking so much effort to finish the book, that is the last of his novels I will read.  I am clearing the others out of my library.  Read at your own risk and don't expect much in the way of a conclusion.  Then again, that's the way all of Martin's books are so I'm sure you know this already.
The first three books in this series were amazing. AFFC was ok, nothing amazing but a decent read considering it consisted of secondary characters. ADWD was just awful. It was slower and Martin somehow made me hate all the chapters except for Johns. Arya's were painfully submissive (and she was my favorite character), Cerci's were drawn out, and Dany's were uneventful and were completely useless. After half the book I simply wanted this to end, skipped all of Dany's second half chapters until the last, and actually had to put the book down for a few weeks because it was so, so boring. I think the thing that made me most hate this book was that the characters lost their personality. Dany was a little girl, Arya was more like Sansa, and John comprises his morals at the end. For the following two books I'll simply attempt to find an online summary unless Martin finds a new editor or finds the passion that he lost.
This novel is wonderful, the book is lovely.  But Amazon keeps sending books that are damaged and banging around in boxes.  Tried twice to get one without a broken spine.  Gave up and ordered from Rifle.
George has written 5 books of a supposedly 7 book series. There was the threat that the Others were returning to do something... You've got two books left in which to tie up the myriad of loose ends AND the introduce the invasion of the Others. Good luck with that. I'll just read wikipedia to get a quick plot synopsis since George has apparently never met a word he didn't like.
I don't believe the story will ever be finished and I don't believe any additional books will recapture what made the series so addictive in Books 1 - 3.  I sincerely hope that HBO cuts ties with the book after season 3 the way they did with the Sookie Stackhouse books OR that Martin gives up all together and lets talented ghost writers take the wheel.  I'm kind of glad that the next book probably won't be out for six years because it will probably take that long for me to get over my bitterness over the weeks I wasted reading Books 4 and 5.
no table of cointents
I won't try to waste your time with a long winded summary that goes nowhere. George Martin does THAT  so well that it's hard to compete.  The last two books in this so called series are such a collection of pointless trash that I've genuinely begun to suspect  Martin of having nothing but scorn for his readers. You can almost hear him dragging himself to the writing desk despite all the other important things he wants to do in his life, like remodel his kitchen!  He's going to make some coin from the HBO series and I think that's all he really cares about at this point.  Well, good for him.  I, for one, am done with this bozo .
I do not understand what all the adulation is about this book.  I had to read this book this summer with my high school daughter for a upcoming junior research paper in the fall.  I really wish she had picked another novel from the list like Catch 22 or Call of the Wild.  I would rather gouge my eyes out with a rusty nail than read Little Women.  I found the format disjointed and the stories very boring.  I get that as a Female American Author of her time, it is considered classic literature.  But I would much rather read Jane Eyre than Little Women.  Maybe Alcott's other novels that were geared towards adults would be more my speed, but honestly now the assignment is over, I don't want to read anything else this woman wrote.
Martin hates his readers almost as much as his characters.  The series is become very Robert Jordan-ish and is a serious test of patience. The plot inches forward, but Martin's writer's block is still evident, though not as bad as "Feast."  I give it one star due to the wait, expectations, and my frustration at seeing a great series sputter and die.
The Kindle version is *NOT* the complete set of Shakespeare's works. I need to access "Henry V" for my Shakespeare class and this download did not contain this play. Highly disappointed with the lack of clarification given by the seller.
I had expected a book titled "The Complete Works of William Shakespeare" to include...the complete works of William Shakespeare.  It had a biography and two of his works.  If this had been in the book information, or on the cover, I wouldn't have been so surprised at how thin it was when it arrived.
Books 1, 2, 3...works of genius. Amazing! Spellbinding! Couldn't shut up about them. Book 4? Hmmm. Maybe it's a fluke. Maybe the author has been ill. But here now we have Book 5 and the realization that it's no fluke. Martin has lost his way.  Like every other reader, I want the original characters and families to come back! I want them to evolve, grow up, turn evil, go mad, save the world, destroy the world...anything! I could give two figs about the hundreds of new, irrelevant, window-dressing characters that were introduced in 4 and 5: One-Eyed This, One-Armed That, the Giant, the Forked Beard, Green Grace, Blue Grace, Kindly Man. It's exhausting. If there's a prize for 'Most Useless Characters in a Single Novel', Martin wins.  The power house families have crumbled but rather than rebuild them (Lady Catelyn appears only briefly in Book 4 despite her character's fantastic potential for vengeance and villainry!!) Martin has thrown us bones like Ramsay and Daario, hoping that we will keep gnawing.  Seriously, I love George Martin's writing and he tells a wonderful story but I'm not sure I can endure a Number 6. Maybe we're all better off watching where HBO takes the story.
There have been some great moments in this series, but few of them are in this book, nor the last one. I guess the publishers don't want to kill the goose who keeps laying those golden eggs (and could do so for another 2 or 3 books). This series began with such promise. I'm giving this installment one star, as a way of saying "snap out of it" and give us the goods next time!  What happened to the great story teller of A Storm of Swords? There are still some wonderful characters here. How about letting them do something when the next book comes out five or six years from now!
What a train wreak!  I wondered if the last book was a mistake.  Now, I see it was part of a trend -- a downward spiral into nothing.  I am officially done with this boring slog.  If any interest lingers (and if I don't die of old age beforehand) I'll pick up the very last book of the series and read the last five chapters. Life is too short to waste any more time than that with it.
What a joke. Nothing happens. NOTHING. I would llike a refund. It is an insult to fans who waited so long for the next installment.  If the author didn't want to write another book then he simply shouldn't have instead of turing out this garbage. How did the editor not die of boredom?  I almost did.  What a waste of my time.
the writing is too small to read
The description clearly includes the name David Bevington. But I only got this near complete green book of the Oxford edition. What happened? Can't tell the difference between these books now? Either I clicked some option that doesn't have Bevington or this book was sent out of ignorance. Granted this Hulk does have a Table of Content but there are neither footnotes nor line numbers. The text is readable but small. And I must ask, why does the description say Bevington (I checked multiple times before ordering - taking a look inside as well) and yet I have a great green book that has nothing but "The Shakespeare Head Press, Oxford, Edition" under its title page?  I'm worried!
After reading the first four books of this series I looked forward to reading the last chapter to find out what happened to the characters I came to know and love or dislike, (although some of the lesser ones were hard to keep track of), but much to my dismay NOTHING seemed to have been resolved. I don't mean to ruin anything for those still interested in reading this, (if you are DO NOT KEEP READING), but I for one was extremely disappointed in its ending. What became of Stannis, Lady Catelyn, the Wildings, and Stannis' queen, who was still on the wall? What happened to Melisandre, and so many other characters I can't name them all. Some should have died a number of times, yet they lived or came back from the dead, it was hard to tell. I felt almost angry that he left his readers up in the air to imagine their OWN endings. Can we assume Dany went with the Dothraki and was sent to the crones where dead warrior wives go? Can we assume Sansa just stayed with Littlefinger and lived happily ever after as his bastard daughter?  Did Cersei lose her trial with the battle of the champions? WTH happened to Jaime and Brienne?? Did they ever defeat the Others??  What happened to the dragons?? Come on George, you let us down. Do us a favor and at least write one more and tie up all your loose ends. Give us the satisfaction of knowing what happened to those we came to care about and those we came to despise. I read somewhere that viewers of the HBO series were taken aback by Ned Starks beheading as they thought he was a central character and wasn't going to die. If that bothered them just wait to they see the new installments of this series. Wait till the end when they find out NOTHING. I for one will not read anymore of his writings, despite being enthralled by the first four books.
This is a joke. The title "The actually complete works of William Shakespeare" should have given this SCAM away. There is no table of contents. I want my money back.
All the reviews for many of these different e-editions and print editions of Complete Shakespeares are identical.  There is no way of knowing which edition any of them refers to.  It's as though amazon just puts them all in one bin and scoops them up for every edition.  So no review can be useful.
Not even worth $.99! No table of contents. You have to go through the whole book to find anything. I deleted it when I saw how awful it was!
900 pages and nothing happens.  No need to buy this book, just read the synopsis on wikipedia and wait 5-10 years for the next book.  If GRRM finally gets it that his fans are all pissed off, maybe he'll actually put some effort into moving the plot forward in the next volume.
The book is phenomenal, but buying the book from Amazon?  Not so much.  Why, you ask?  Well, I've never had a single problem with my Amazon purchases until this one, because I was appalled by the appearance of this new book (please note:  I bought it new through Amazon, not used).  There is no title on the spine so I don't know what book it is on my bookshelf, the front cover photo is an awful pixelated mess...it honestly looks like a five year old stole the contents of the book and put it together.  Congratulations to Louisa Marie Alcott on writing such a wonderful novel, shame on Amazon for selling such a sloppy and worthless copy of it.  Do yourselves a favor, folks:  go buy this one at Barnes & Noble.
I should have listened to the reviews with an open mind and I would have known this was a stinker!!!  I say save your money and wait for a lower price, like when it is free.. If you do purchase this book I guarantee that you will know less after reading this story than before..  George Martin should have listened to past reviews of his other books and forgot all the descriptions of figs, maggots, butter and toast.. When I need a cookbook I will go to Food Network, not Martin..  This latest entry could have been condensed to 200 pages at the most.. This could have been such a good book..................alas it is but a poor fraud..
Man, an author having writers block for 10 years seems impossible, but Martin has found a way to make 2 books during that time.
Poor Review is for quality of binding, not for content - content is fine.  This is a Complete Works, but within reading the first couple plays, the glued binding cracked open. As I continued reading, sections even broke out. It never occurred to me to try to get a replacement copy from amazon, so I didn't. I bought my copy when this 2nd Ed was first published (~ 2007)  I tried to sew it back together, but the paper is too thin/weak to hold stitches.  I have never before had a New book binding break on me like this, just reading it. I am gentle with my books. Poor quality.
I wanted to read/examine the complete works of William Shakespeare in a single volume and I made an idiot's mistake of purchasing one of these editions without fully checking out the interior of the volume. (Note: this is an issue, but Amazon seems to have the inclination to lump reviews of all editions/versions of a particular kind together. For instance, I am reviewing the Wordsworth Editions of the Complete Works of William Shakespeare, yet this review may end up on the Oxford. Beware reading positive reviews of a certain edition/version without realizing that it may not apply to the edition or version you are getting.)  So imagine my dismay opening up the Wordsworth Editions of the Complete Works and seeing such tiny, tiny lettering all bunched up together in two separate columns on each page. It's so small, I'm going to need magnifying glasses if I want to read it! Magnifying glasses! I don't know what other editions are like, but I fear this may be a problem with wanting a single volume of William Shakespeare's works. So for clear reading of the text without magnifying glasses, I fear you may need to purchase these plays separately or in a multi-volume edition. This is just horrible, horrible, horrible.
I tried dancing with this book to no avail.  This book was like a homely, boring wallflower:  all dressed up in GRRM language but lacking any progress.  It has been so long since the last book that I found I just don't care for these characters anymore.  They're not doing anything interesting.  They're not clever.  They're not noble or wicked or exciting.  Just homely wallflowers.
This review refers to the KINDLE version. THERE IS NO INDEX. AGAIN, THERE IS NO INDEX. You cannot search OR SEE THE contents of this book. Therefore it is useless. I will be asking for a refund.
Shakespeare is great, but the quality of this edition is terrible.  I ordered a bunch for a class I'm teaching, and nearly half of them arrived with broken bindings.
I returned this book because the print was minuscule. There were no footnotes, and the paper quality was flimsy. Unfortunately, I cannot find a complete works of Shakespeare that is any better. I suppose everyone is buying separate copies of the plays or reading them online (if they are reading them at all). I was disappointed, to say the least. The Bard of Avon deserves better!
We waited 6 years for this? 11 years for Bran, Jon, Dany, Tyrion, etc.?  This book was just a whole bunch of walking around and doing nothing important. Just setting up cliffhangers for the next book. It was an in-between book, and not worth my time. I didn't care about half of the characters. Martin keeps adding new characters and taking away precious pages from the characters I really care about, like the Starks, Tyrion, and Dany. Sure, Bran gets some pretty badass super powers and Arya does some assassin stuff, but for the most part, this book was a complete and total let down. But I am faithful and when Winds of Winter gets around, I'll read it. But fair warning, if Winds doesn't do it, I might stop reading the series. I LOVED the first 3 books. Feast wasn't too great (didn't have my favorite characters) but Dance was even worse. I felt like Martin was stringing us along for an epic 5th installment that ended up being sub par.  He claims writing the book was a bitch, but honestly, so was reading the thing.
I wouldn't recommend a book with such a format. Complete waste of money.
I wish I had read more of the customer reviews. The fact that there is no TOC makes this collection useless!!! There is at least $0.99 version that has a TOC - get that one, or spend a little extra. Either way, you have to be able to navigate a collection this large by some other method than simply flipping through EVERY PAGE that Billy Boy wrote! I don't know how to make this any more clear than this. DO NOT BUY THIS COLLECTION!!!
Amazon's "preview"of this Kindle book indicates there is a linked table of contents. Not so. All plays are strung together with one play often ending on the same page where another begins, and the only way to get a list of contents is to search on "Shakespeare" since he appears as the author at the beginning of each piece (you'll have to scroll through many false positives as there is a bio with many "Shakespeares" kicking off this shoddy work.)  Rip the pages out of all of Shakespeare's works and stack them high, and you will get a feel for the quality of this sorry compendium.  Luckily, I have sworn off criticism, or I would tell you how I really feel.  Note: this review is for the Kindle "Everlasting Flames Publishing" collection.
Little Billy Shakespeare could write, he has nothing to prove.  In fact, it irritates me that he was as good as he was.  Did he write the plays?  His friend and fellow writer and actor, Ben Jonson, said he did.  That's good enough for me.  And he wasn't perfect:  Hamlet is too long, the Merchant of Venice is a very weak play with a couple of good speechs, then there's Macbeth - ooh what a play!  Then there's this Kindle edition....  OUCH!  It is nearly impossible to navigate.  The Table of Contents is so lacking in detail that I wish you luck in finding anything.  What did I expect for $1.99? Not much.  But a Table of Contents that would allow you to find whatever you're looking for would have been nice.  As it is, it is virtually useless.
I started reading these books after hearing that HBO was going do its series about 2 years ago.  Like many have stated, I found the first 3 books to be some of the best fantasy I have ever read (limited though that may be).  Book 4 though missing many of the best characters was a bit of a disappoinment, but still good relative to most fantasy.  As I read ADWD I was struck that it seems Martin was writing this book with one thought in mind; how would this play out on TV and could this help build another season of Game of Thrones on HBO.  Much like nothing ever really happens to Sookie,Bill and the rest on True Blood with the same main characters swirling around but never really getting any where.  In this book, there were lots of little events that take place surrounding Tyrion, Dany, Jon etc., with some nice end of season cliffhangers (i.e. Jon).  However, nothing much happened that seemed to advance the story.  I found Dany's arc highly dissapointing as was Tyrion's as both were exactly where they started the book.  Jon's was good but his final decisions were questionable given the character we have read so much about to say the least.  Also the forward makes this outcome seem rather obvious.  Overall, I read the book rapidly and wanted to see what happened but finished feeling very unfulfilled.  Versus some other books I have read this was maybe four stars, but versus my expectations and Martins other ASOIAF books it was a one star, thus my 2 star rating.  A bit of rambling review, but wanted to lend my voice to those out there trying to let George know we are not satisfied and would like something better next time (as far away as that may be, a sad discovery I made after getting into this series and discovering the author's proclivity for doing anything BUT write these books).
Little to add to the many negative reviews above.  I am a fan, I waited effectively ten years for this to turn up and it really sucked to the point that I just can't avoid comparisons with the other great disappointment of my geek generation's life - the Star Wars prequels.  The let down is almost exactly the same - its set in the same universe, the names are the same but everything is wrong as if some utterly inept doppelganger had taken over.  With Lucas the reasons are obvious - in the first three SW (well the first two anyway, Revenge of the Jedi shows the rot already setting in) he worked as part of a whole creative team with above all professional writers who were willing to tell him when he was wrong - the prequels are just pure George and show that while he can produce and cut merchandising deals like hell he can neither write nor direct.  I wonder if with Martin the same factors are in play - remarkably for a book so long in the writing it does not appear to have been edited at all - as if now he is such a succcessful writer no one dares tell him that he's produced not one but two fat and bloated volumes that scarcely advance the plot or develop any characters (other than ones who should never have played more than bit parts anyway) since the end of A Storm of Swords.  Well although reasonably enough he claims to not care about amazon reviews this does give us an opportunity to tell him the truth - going from four and a half to three stars or worse hurts sales - and if you hurt sales maybe the publishers  and HBO (whose show runners must be asking themselves WTF they are going to do with the last two volumes if they ever get that far) will tell him to get a grip.
No index! With 37,000 pages it makes it hard (and ridiculous) to find the stories
Not the complete works.  A bunch of sonnets and one play.  Maybe it was a problem with the download.
This is a review of The Actually Complete Works of William Shakespeare in the Kindle edition. The Amazon reviews for Shakespeare seem to be completely mixed up. This book has no useful table of contents so it's only value is to someone who wants to read the poems and plays end to end. I would like to find each play listed separately- is that too much to ask?
Do not buy this version! It appears to be a kinko's printout of Little Women with a cover imaged slapped on -- it is not an authorized printing. How is this even legal for Amazon to sell??
This book deserves no more than a 2.5 to 3 star review at best. So. With that in mind, I have added a 1 star review to help counter all the bull@#%$ five star reviewers on Amazon who are trying so desperately to save ADWD from being seen for what it is:Drek. George Martin is doubtless a creative genius, but this book is the equivalent of what a genius might dump in a toilet after taking a turbo laxative, one that just keeps the @$#% coming indefinitely, 1000 pages of it to be exact. And you too can have the it, for just $18.95.  Anyway, I have only one question: How can a veritable genius of modern fantasy, with no less than 3 masterpieces to his credit, take 6 years to write this 1000-page dung book when we know he has written 3 brilliant books in just 5?  What happened?
Upon completing this book I felt as if I had been led on a literary wild goose chase.  The ending has no relevance to anything in the book preceding it.  My initial response was to ask myself "where did this come from?"  After waiting five years to say I am disappointed would be an understatement.
I am completely convinced that the author of A Dance with Dragons is not the same person who wrote A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, and A Storm of Swords.  Here's my reasoning.  Take the book A Storm of Swords.  Open it to any page.  Now open A Dance with Dragons to the same page number.  Read the page in A Storm of Swords and immediately read the page of A Dance with Dragons.  Repeat this process three of four times.  A simliar comparison of A Dance with Dragons to A Game of Thrones and A Clash of Kings is worth the effort.  Compare the use of dialog, narrative, and even punctuation.  The difference is amazing isn't it.  Most reviews are complaining that A Dance with Dragons is a poor companion to the first three books in the series based on plot and lack of forward momentum, but no one is addressing the reason behind the slip in quality. My take is that the difference in the very mechanics of writing between A Dance with Dragons and the first three books is so dramatic the it could not possibly be written by the same author.  So who wrote A Dance with Dragons?  If it was truly George R. R. Martin, then who wrote the first three books?  It just can't be the same guy.
The binding was broken, both front and back. Fortunately I had purchased a different set to compare so I was still able to give a nice gift
I bought the first book and was immediately hooked; the second book was bait for the third, which left me waiting for a finish...instead I get feast of crows, which asks more questions than it answered.  I love fantasy, I enjoy ongoing series, but I am not buying into another "Robert Jordan" and waiting for this guy to die so I can finally figure out the finish.  I suggest the fan base of the initial plot lines get together online and finish it ourselves.
All the other reviews have covered the shortcomings of this book but I was especially disappointed in what has happened to Dany in this book. Martin really destroyed her, cant believe she is back with the Dothraki after everything she has been through!!!
Compared with the other four books this one is extremely dissapointing.  It is slow and doesn't tie back to the earlier story lines very well.  Where I couldn't put the first four down I can't recommend picking the fifth up.
Is a copy of a real book in the tiniest of fonts. It's not even legible. And I'm not in to burning books, but this one made very good kindle for a recent bonfire night. STAY AWAY!
This Book is afraid to do anything.  Characters move from place to place with minimal amount of growth or resolution.  Major story lines feel like they're in a holding pattern.  And most annoyingly, Martin's descriptions and dialogue have gotten stale and repetitive; half the women in the book are 'thick waisted and large breasted'.  While he can usually craft a better sentence than Robert Jordan, he's not at the top of his game in this book.  I think that's because he's been overwhelmed by the task he's set for himself.  Too bad.
After being told that the books are much better than the TV series, I just finished the series of 5 in one 'continuous' sitting. So I didn't experience the 'waiting with abated breath' for this book, as many other readers/followers had to. Fortunately. As a lover of fantasy, I was very 'chaffed' with the first 3 books. Interesting characters that may be pushing daisies unexpectedly, witty and robust narrative, very promising storyline with some sideshows, but with no predictable good vs evil result. Total reading time of the first 3 was about 30% of the 'sitting'. An easy 4/5 stars. Not an 'American Tolkien', but very enjoyable. But then Martin lost the plot. AFoC lasted for the next 30% of the reading time and left me confused. Multiple new characters and variations on the theme similar to a symphony, but with very little harmony and reason for existance and with no finale/s. Perhaps 3/5 stars. A need for clarification forced me into the 5th book. Alas, ADwD got worse. The Babilonian confusion turned into a torture rack of deaths, resurrections, cul-de-sacs and multiple subplots for no rhyme or reason. Storyline? - very ephemeral. I endured it for the last 40% of wasted time, for no other reasons than curiosity and tenacity. Perhaps stupidity too. It has a bitter aftertaste with very little substance for the tummy. A reluctant 1-2/5 stars. The future finale, or probably several of them, will be read via summaries from the internet for personal closure on some characters with their roots in the first 3 books. No more money for greed.
The first three books were great.  They moved and I couldn't put them down.  Book four was a disappointment, slow pace and not a thing about DT who was one of the most interesting characters.  "Dances With Dragons" is a disingenuous title...not much DT here either and not much about dragons either.  I had anticipated this book with high hopes only to be sorely disappointed and the only thing draggin' was the pace.  If the next one takes years I'm not sure I'll remember to read it.
Be aware that the cover on the paperback is ridiculously blurry. It looks terrible. I am trying to return it.
I'm very disappointed. It is not a book, it's just a black&white printer copy. I would have NEVER bought this if I had seen it in a shop.
I would return this version if I could. The works are all there and are wonderful, but the entire ebook is formatted as though the compilers expect the reader to read the collection from start to finish. First of all, the lines are formatted as if one were reading prose (which is completely wrong when reading something like Shakespeare's characteristic iambic pentanomers). Second, there are no links to any of his works in the Table of Content, so the reader has to search for the work they want to locate it. Finally, plays may start halfway through a page.  I recommend finding a different collection of the Bard's works (at least if you are purchasing the ebook).
I bought this Wordsworth edition based on the Amazon review blurbs and the review by Charles S. Houser, all under the Wordsworth edition.  Amazon (as is its won't with reviews for multiple editions of the same title) has placed the excellent review by Charles S. Houser for the William Shakespeare Complete Works (Modern Library) (Hardcover) under their listing for The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (Wordsworth Edition). Also, the Editorial Review blurbs in the AMAZON description for the Wordsworth edition are actually for the RSC edition, NOT for this Wordsworth Edition.  This Wordsworth Edition is NOT single-column. It does NOT have introductory essays for any of the plays. It is NOT the edition commissioned by the RSC. It is 1263 pages, NOT 2,485 pages.  If you want what is described in the Houser review, look up 1) "The RSC Shakespeare : The Complete Works" and 2) "William Shakespeare Complete Works (Modern Library) by Shakespeare". Amazon offers this edition by two different publishers: 1) Palgrave; 2) Modern Library. At the time I write this review, Amazon offers these editions only through third parties, but that might change over time.
Five years for this? Long drawn out characterizations that numb the mind. Plots dragged out with no resolution.  Who edited this novel?  I listened to the Audible edition and was appalled by the narrator. He had every female character sounding like an old crone. Waste of an Audible credit.
STOP! Do not waste your time. There are so many threads left unanswered, it defies belief. He has fallen into the "eternal series" trap.
So much family love
Very disappoint not with the story but the quality of the book. The book has no copywrite, the cover is blurry and the print is so small.  I bought this book for my daughter for summer reading required by the school. Shame on you amazon
The content is, of course, 5 star but this edition is really bad. But this edition "Publisher: CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform" - is a really poor quality home-made thing with a blurry, scanned cover.
Kindle version has no table of contents and no annotations which are available on free versions. Regardless of what people say about the hardcover version this version is useless. Amazon should segregate the reviews of the formats if the e-version is completely different like this. Very dissatisfied.
I was introduced to the ASOIAF series by a friend at work. He got me to read the first book (Game Of Thrones) and I was hooked. As has been stated ad nauseum, the first three books in the series are simply amazing. I won't go into details as I would like to keep the review concise and most who are reading this already know what I'm talking about anyway as evidenced by the ratings.  ADWD is nothing like the first three books; none of the original magic that made the first three so addictive is present in the last two books of the series.  I disagree with some of the assertions that the problem with the book is that there is too much detail. Rich detail is fine and the first three books had it in spades. The difference with those stories though is that along with the vivid descriptions you got loads of plot development and closure to the storylines.  But now, not only does the story stagnate, but the author also introduces several new characters that most fans of the series are not invested in. What most readers crave is some sort of resolution for the original characters - especially after six years of waiting!  Another thing I've noticed is that it almost seems as if when GRRM can't think of anything new for his characters to do he simply sends them on a journey that never ends. It's gotten pathetic.  It is a real shame the way things turned out with this series. As stated, I was enthralled with the first three books; as was the friend who originally turned me on to the series; but when I asked him over lunch the other day how far along he had gotten in ADWD? He confessed that he was having a very hard time maintaining focus on the story - And this from the same guy that couldn't stop talking about the first three books.  Right after we had both finished A Feast For Crows, I told him how disapointed I was with the story and he remarked " Don't worry, ADWD will pick everything up again!" . . .  Well, no. . . Not really.  I used to think about the characters and worry about where the storyline was going next but after the last two books I'm at the point where I no longer really care. It's a real shame that it turned out this way for a series that showed so much promise at the begining.
This book is a weak continuation of the Song of Ice and Fire.  Never in this series have I felt this strong a desire to skip pages until this book.  (well, quite a bit in A Feast for Crows, actually, but I was much less jaded about it). Although I will read Book 6 when/if it is released, it will be mostly because of time already invested. It won't be because of the eager anticipation I felt after AGoT, ACoK or ASoS...  This plot has become over reaching and began stagnating in AFFC and it feels as though Martin has decided to DIG himself out of that hole.  He begins adding new characters 5 books into the story and spends MORE time on their mini-stories than on the characters the reader has followed thus far.  WHY???  They end up being pawns (obviously) and draw NO affection from the reader.  Some of them are so weak (Quentyn Martel) that they stop the reader in their tracks. When I turned the page and saw the chapter title "the Spurned Suitor" or "Victarion", I cringed...  What about Bran? I've waited six years to find out what Brienne said to get out of the noose. Where's Rickon?  I have been following the thread of the completion of this book on the Web, of how GRRM's script had become too bloated and so he decided to cut it into two books AFFC and ADWD.  So disappointed was I with AFFC that I read these books back to back to get what Martin says was his original intent. (he actually says to cut the two books up then put them together in chronological order).  When I reached the end of ADwD, I said: "WTF???"  All he had to do was EDIT his bloated manuscript and he could have spared his readership six years of waiting and actually come out with a decent ADwD that would have moved his story arc on pace with the first 3 books.  Instead of cutting it down, he cut it up and added filler.  TONS of it. Who does that?  What type of product would anyone expect from such a tactic?  The reviewers who gave this book 5 stars did it out of love.  They claim that the 1 stars voted so because "this book wasn't what they imagined/expected".  This is a load of hooey.  I/We didn't have concrete imaginings for ASoS or any of the first 3 for that matter, yet still loved them.  Yeah, I get that GRRM has a lot of world to cover and it takes pages to do that.  But as MANY people will agree, a rigid red pen and a pair of scissors would have made a Dance with Dragons or AFFC/ADwD much more palatable.  To the five star reviewers:  Tell me that you LOVED every chapter and the character to whom it belonged.  Because I can honestly say until AFFC that I LOVED them all.
Paternalistic, full of moral hangups. Does not stand the test of time.
I was very disappointed with the Kindle edition of this book. It cost $2 but there was nothing about it to warrant the price. Usually when public domain books cost money, it is because the compilers have put effort into making the edition very accessible and aesthetically pleasing. Not so with *The Complete Works of William Shakespeare*. The volume did not even have a table of contents! Since Shakespeare was a prolific author, this makes the book prohibitively difficult to navigate on the Kindle. The reason I bought this book was because I wanted to read *Henry V*, and I thought that I might as well purchase the Complete Works since I am likely to read many of Shakespeare's plays in time. This book is so difficult to navigate that I ended up downloading the free version of *Henry V* by itself to read! Don't make the mistake I did and purchase this edition. You will be better off downloading the various plays individually.
I"m not sure what happened to the Kindle version, but it is not what was advertized. My first complaint is a lack of any table of contents. I didn't expect to be able to navigate to Act 2 Scene 3 of Henry V but I expected to be able to navigate to the play itself.  The next major complaint is that It looks like this was just scraped from Project Gutenberg. I mean literally, there's formatting text after each section. This is actually unkind, After checking the Epub provided by Project Gutenberg I found no formatting text.  The Lack of line numbers is annoying but understandable as a abandoning a modern convention. Except that in this case it wasn't an editing choice, it was laziness.  As a further note that should be obvious by what I've already said there are no play introductions or notes.
The kindle edition doesn't have a table of contents. Having to flip through thousands of pages in order to find the play I want to read makes this edition useless to me.
Downloaded this, but could not get any annotations to appear using the Kindle app on the iPad, so I returned it. Too bad.
I preordered the book on my kindle and hoped for the best, but was sorry I bought it. Even middle books in a series require introduction, development and conclusion, but ADWD left you with no resolution at all! People complain about "cliffhangers", but they are not even cliffhangers; plotlines just end and leave you nowhere. And what's with the title?  A Dance with Dragons? The dragons did absolutely nothing until the very end, and I certainly wouldn't call that a dance. The Meereen chapters were the worst: long exposition about people and politics I didn't give a fig about, endless inconsequential new characters, and Dany devolves from a strong queen to a dumb, lovesick teenager. Tyrion has lost his cutting wit and goes on a long, meandering river cruise getting nowhere. Everyone in the East was heading toward Dany, but no-one (except Quenton!) arrived. The best chapters were the ones in the North. If Martin had continued those plotlines until after the battle, we would have gotten a conclusion and been eager for the next stage. Too bad he has a fangirl editor; a good edit was what AFFC and ADWD really needed.
I know the story well, but dislike the narrator in the audio version, overdoes the American accent.
I thought this was a joke when I opened the package.  It looked like a bootleg copy of the book.  The front image is all blurry and the inside type is small and looks like it came from a copier.  I bought this as a present for someone and couldn't give it to them because it looks like I made it myself at Kinko's or something.
Looks like JRR Martin has gone too far in the stringing us along game--which it turns out was the ACTUAL game of thrones. I'll count on HBO to give me the best bits from now on.
I was a fan of the books...after this one there is no way I will read another book in this series.  Only 1 or 2 characters are still alive that are worth reading about...I found myself reading the beginning and end of chapters for the first time because the middle of each chapter is fill with nonsense history not relevant to any of what is actually going on. Killing characters is ok if it makes sense to story progression but the death in this book is just stupid...lets just Julius Caesar him and get on with it. So, George RR Martin you lost a fan today...and u cannot make it right in my eyes, so goodbye Song of Ice and Fire.
The first couple of volumes of this series were truly intriguing.  It was a little off-putting that Martin's proven creativity was a little lacking with the obvious theme for the work being the English Wars of the Roses with a map that looked suspiciously like England (including Hadrian's Wall), two contending families, Stark (York) and Lannister (Lancaster) and knights being called "ser" instead of "sir."  But he told a rousing good tale anyway.  After investing many hours reading the now five 1,000-page installments, we deserve better than people just going and going from place to place.  I know he's busy doing his HBO mini-series on this subject, but he needs to wrap this baby up before he dies on us.  I'd recommend just skipping this volume and hoping that the next one is the finale.  You won't miss much.  He definitely phoned this one in.
i waited years for this book to come out, i read the first 4 books twice,i was a huge grrm. fan, even loved the hbo series,  this book was such a disapointment, i am truly pissed off, i was looking so forward to a conclusion to the series, to see what happens to all the characters . this book gives no conclusion to any thing. it leaves it all up in the air. it was just so bad, i can't believe he acually wrote it! do not waste your money on this book, and if you have to read it like i did, wait for the paperback, so you won't be mad at yourself for waisting the money.
There are several things wrong with this copy of this book: 1) the size - the description says it is ~6.9 x 4, which is a normal sized paperback.  In reality it is 7 x 10, which is huge and awkward. 2) the font is tiny! 3) Chapters start in the middle and even bottoms of pages. 4) there is no in-cataloguing data/ copyright/ information page 5) The spine is blank white - no title, nothing. 6) The actual cover is horrible!  While the one on the little picture on Amazon looks nice, on the actual book it is so blurry that it is ridiculous. I am sending it back and ordering a different one.  I have ordered Createspace books before and they were fine, but this was very poorly made.  Disappointed.
This is crazy.  A Blurry Printed Copy of the Front Cover, no copyright page, a simple barcode on the back and the font inside of this poorly made copy is so small, it is difficult to read.  Sending this back today and going to the Library.  This was not what I would have expected from Amazon.  Very Disappointed and to boot, I have to pay to ship it back.
I bought this only because it was cheap and I wanted something in a hurry.  I looks nice, but is hard to read and has an annoying feature wherein, to save space, if there is only one word left in a paragraph, it is but above the next to last word, instead of continuing to the next line....you sort of have to read it a bit backwords at that point.  The overall effect is that text is squeezed in to get more on a page (and type is small to begin with).  Thankfully, I have since found a much better book to replace it.
I purchased it then returned it when I concluded it is mislabeled. There's not a word about David Bevington in it. And, yes, some plays are in French translation.  Somebody goofed. Please make Bevington's edition of Shakespeare's Complete Works available on Kindle!
This book was a huge disappointment for me. I was introduced to this story from the Showtime series & decided to read the books instead of watching the tele. I was completely addicted to the first 4 books, but this last one left too much unsaid. The story goes nowhere very slowly. What happens to Arya? Dani? Bran? Maybe it was told in the pages and pages of nothing that I skipped over. I was expecting a spectacular ending to this series that I didn't get. Dont waste the $ and the time it takes to read this book. Nothing gets solved, people die, people sit & talk of war & dragons. Dragons that never made it to Kings Landing & of a Queen that never took back her kingdom. Maybe Mr. Martin got tired of writing descriptions of starving men eating horses & people. I mean how many ways can you cook a horse...
Where were all the characters the author has tied us to so well in the past?  He majored on minor characters and did not develope them, nor did he tie up any loose ends for the characters we know. He also graduated to the vilest of language and assaulted us with it constantly.  A terrific let down.
I can think of no word other than awful to describe this book. I've loved the previous books in the series in spite of many negative reviews but this was sham.  The endless prattle about lineage and royal houses; The number of chapters decicated to a character only to have their story conclude in a small puff of smoke so insubsubstantial that it seems almost an aside.  Rather than close storylines, the book actually opened new ones that just come about and then go out into the vacuum of space.  I don't view Martin as an author gifted with clever prose; I read him for the story. Sorry to say that in this book there was none.
I have read and love Little Women. I ordered this copy for my daughter. We were so disappointed to discover that this copy is a strange size, the cover picture is blurry, and the back cover is solid white. The cover does not provide the aesthetic pleasure that I expect from a book. The book does not have a publishers page, and the font is oddly small. The book seems like a strange forgery or unauthorized copy. I have ordered many books from Amazon in the past, but I may plan to purchase from a nearby bookstore for future purchases so that I can see the product before I buy. I wasted my money on this edition.
The size of the letter is too small It's hard to see clearly for my age around 50. Sorry about it
Just received what appears to be a home made printed copy of Little Women. No copyright page - nothing. The cover picture is a blurry digital copy of a photo of the picture. The print is very small and difficult to read!  I'm so disappointed and I'll be returning this right away!!  I wish I could give a zero star rating.
I bought this collection to reference on my kindle and not only does it not contain a table of contents, there are no indications of who is speaking each line. I was baffled. Am I the only one who had this problem?
An earlier reviewer had warned me, but I hadn't thought the missprint problem could be THIS bad! And I really did want the apocrypha. I must confess that at the time of writing this review, I have read only one of the plays -- ARDEN OF FEVERSHAM. It's a play I know pretty well, and admire greatly; but from this printing ... gad! Had I not already known the story, I would have found it impossible to follow! It reads as if retyped by someone to whom English is at best a second language, and as if nobody had ever proofread it at all. Of course, if that is indeed the case, they should be congratulated for occasionally getting a speech or two more or less correct, whether or not assigned to the right character. I have not yet dared to attempt reading any of the other plays.
The spacial formatting in the Kindle edition is horrible.  In the plays, the indenting or offsetting of the character vs. the line is almost random.  I returned it within ten minutes.
I am the biggest fan of ASOIAF that you will find. The reason I'm such a big fan however is because of the amazing quality of the first three novels.  I consider A Storm of Swords to be the greatest book I've ever read. A Feast Crows did not live up to the hype and ended up being a massive disappointment. With that said, I still had hope that GRRM could right the ship. Unfortunately, A Dance with Dragons is the worst book he has written yet. It is a book of pointless filler where almost nothing important happens.  Too many chapters are simply unnecessary chapters where the character starts at one point and the chapter ends with him/her still at the same point. There is little development whatsoever with ANY of the characters. There are a few good moments and surprises but not nearly enough to live up to Martin's books.  I waited 6 years for this novel and got a 1000 page book in which everything important that took place could have been completely summarized in less than 5 pages. Yes I'm serious, that's how little took place in this book.  Gone are the huge surprises, the big battles and the sense of awe that you used to get while reading these books. When I read the first three books there were many moments where I just had a blank look on my face and thought "Wow". These looks and feelings of awe have been replaced by feelings of boredom and yawns.  ASOIAF looked like it was destined to become the greatest Fantasy series of all time but that has all gone out the window. Martin can still regain it however if he can deliver in the next book unlike with the past two.  Martin is still the best fiction writer alive today but if it takes multiple years to release the next book, I'm going to give up on him. It's criminally expensive to buy a hardcover book these days.
Started reading her books because she was a favorite of my Mother.  My Mother had good taste. Recommend her books to one and all.
Unlike the many readers who started this series and had to wait for years to read the next book, I bought and read the first 4 and only waited a month to read this one. I will not be waiting for nor purchasing any further books in this series.  Mr. Martin put together an interesting cast of characters. He developed them quite well. I became vested in their stories. I feel like I have been betrayed by the author through the deaths of some of them. Every book loses characters through conflict, that's what makes the story more real and more interesting at times. However, manipulating the story line to make it seem that things are going one way, only to chop down the character instead, is something I feel is wrong.  Throughout the series, the tenor of the books has become increasingly dark. Things have become more violent, sadistic and crude. I found that more and more disconcerting. It may be that Mr. Martin feels that this fits in better with today's society and its tastes. I hope not. I have been reading fantasy for almost 50 years. There is some really great stuff out there, but I'm done with Mr. Martin.
Bleak.  No annotations, no notes, no commentary. No table of contents. Lines are not typeset as they are in the print edition. Characters identified in abbreviation. Prose lines and poetry lines set in center of page.  Do not bother with kindle edition.
Don't waste your money.  Wait for someone to give you a brief summary of the book. It was so freaking boring, what happened to his imagination? I couldn't keep my eyes open. Next book I'm going to try to get off torrent just in case it sucks too.
I have just completed reading the first 4 books of this series having gotten interested in it through the HBO Series, Game of Thrones. The first 3 books were terrific and I roamed about everywhere with my Kindle reading them. In book 4, A Feast for Crows, the story line fell apart. I agreed with everything the true readers wrote of that book and I scanned reviews of fans of the series for the 5th book, A Dance with Dragons, looking specifically for spoilers. Now I know how the story is progressing--it's not.  Once again, thank you all for sparing me the $14.99 Kindle price and a week of my life!
I could not put down the first four novels and for that, I thank you. However, I can barely make myself finish this mind-numbing filler. It gives us mundane glimpses into what is happening with the characters we have grown to care about, but doesn't move the story or add to the development of said characters. Hopefully, your final two novels will bring back the creative magic you struck in the majority of the first books; so far it is feeling as though you should have wrapped up the story in 5 ....
Like so many people, I loved the first three books and read them quickly. I could accept that some of the characters that I had identified with were killed because the plot continued to engage me, This last book I struggled with - it seemed to spend all its time journeying to somewhere and did not have enough plot movement to engage me. The descriptions of a characters breakfast, the extent that they can piss, types of turtles can be accepted once but not repeatedly - I kept thinking that I had read all this before and so started skipping pages. I put the book down a third of the way through and after a week or two, forced myself to finish but was dissapointed. I had pre-ordered this book, I will not be reading the next.
I am entering my disgust with the kindle version just to add another 1 star review.  I was misled by reviews of the paper version and did not realize that the kindle version is unusable until I bought it.
Absolutely TERRIBLE!! We wait how many years while reading updates about your house remodel. There is no point to the story anymore. George- come on, you have great character development. You can't seem to figure out what to do when you develop them so you kill them. I mean how many chapters have you devoted to characters you have killed? Who is the protagonist now? Some kid who we just learn about in book 5? Really? We have nothing invested in him. Your writing is a mess. I can't believe I wasted twenty bucks and countless hours reading this garbage. This series is done. Don't bother reading the book. If you must wait until the excess hardcovers come to the 99 cent store. I have lost all respect for you as an author George.
George,  You are getting the cash, but your fame is ending. If I am not mistaking your outline called for five books. Maybe you should have stayed the course. For your series has lost it's way; hard to turn from your own story to something else!! No wonder you cannot spit out these books anymore.  Like Jordan you have went from CLASSIC to forgettable to "please stop waisting my time"!!  Sure you got paid, but I supect you will BEWAIL the cost in the end.  Not many masters bro ...... AND you had your shot!!
It is entirely possible that Martin either did NOT write the first 3 books or did not write the last 2 books...the notion that the same person wrote all 5 is impossible.  We could henpeck all the inconsistencies in style and tone and talent, but there's really no point. If you're a fan, you know something's wrong.  I've read other stuff by Martin and it's pretty decent. Fever Dream being on of my favorite vampire books, I'd say the guy has some talent in writing. That said, NONE of his other books come close the the complexity and moxie of SOIAF.  I have theories as to why the first three books are not in the same league as the last two.  If you'd like to discuss the conspiracies, please comment here and a message will be sent to my hotmail account. My user-name here is name I use for my email as well.  Is George RR Martin part of one of the largest literary consipiracies since George Eliot?? Let's explore the possibilities together.
The worst book I have read in ten years. Over priced, over hyped. Two thirds of this book should have been edited and left on the floor. This is the best that Mr. Martin can do after 6 years? If so, please let it be the last. This was one of the most eagerly awaited books in years and a major flop. The book like the last couple he has wrote was hard to read. The reader must be committed to the story, devote endless hours to the book for NO ending. Way, way, way, to many twists and turns,to many people, places, things,that have to be remembered. Mr Martin, it does not need 50 pages on how a spoon looks or another 30 on how the person raised it to his mouth to eat. Not to mention that is ok to leave some of the good guys alive. I don't mind killing off the main subject from time to time but you have pushed this to the limit. I have purchased his other 4 books and was ok with them, some better then others. This is my last book that I intend to buy from him.
Just received a home made printed copy of Little Women. No copyright page - nothing. The cover picture is a blurry digital copy of a photo of the picture. I've never seen this before. I'm sure the entire story is probably contained in this printing, and all I really want is to read the story; but, is this right? And it says this was sold by Amazon, not some random sketchy dealer. Not cool for those who receive money from the sale of this book. No invoice enclosed. Have never encountered this. Am I missing something? Could someone shed some light?
I'm writing this review not because it will be different from what everyone else has said, but because if Martin or his editors/publishers ever looks at what the fans are saying, they need to see as much as possible!  This book was bloody awful. Even more so after the amazing first three books. Nothing happens!!! 1000 pages of nothing. It's all politics or very detailed torture. This doesn't make for a good or interesting story. There are far too many descriptions that add nothing, and too much history of the world that does not add to the story. And he's introducing characters and problems that, at this late stage in the series, the audience is not interested in.  In his acknowledgments, he says this book was a bastard and a bitch to write. Well, if he hates writing it so much, he should just write one more that ties everything up and ends the series. Two more books on the way? I find that very hard to believe (at the pace this series moves) and even more unlikely is that they will be any good.  Don't by this book. If you do, just read the last page or two of every chapter so you're aware of what happened in it, but that should cut down the book to the size it should have been.
I'm so confuse. About half way through and i just wanted it to end. I have no attachment to the characters in this book. The author tried to make the world too large. When fans need to make spread sheets of characters and maps of locations you might want to consult an editor. This is why i don't normally read fantasy.
I was taken over by book 1, had to have books 2 and 3, and even enjoyed AFFC. I couldn't wait for ADWD and bought the hardback right away;  but I didn't even finish it. I went to Wikipedia for the last 100 pages of the plot, or what is supposed to be a plot.  There was a huge increase in distasteful language  and descriptions in this volume. I guess this was to make Tyrion and some others more quirky & interesting. The whole Dragon Queen plot became totally Byzantine. I began to skim those portions. Jon's voice on the Wall became the same thing over and over. In fact, the whole book became the same thing over and over. What a waste of money. Before I started ADWD I was concerned about waiting 5 years for the next volume. Now...I could care less when it comes out! What happened?
I ordered this edition because it was described as having a thesaurus of words at the bottom of the pages. It has no such thing, and I am very disappointed with the misleading description of this book.
Incredible decline in quality from the first book to this one. The story is watered down probably in order to stretch this suffering for two more books. The characters are killed randomly and new ones introduced every few pages. The saga is turning into Mexican soap opera and it feels like bunch of non-edited pages published as "book". I thought AFFAC was suffering, but this book damaged series beyond repair. I am giving up on it. Have no intention to buy or read any further installments of this mental torture that the saga became. One more thing, don't compare George R.R. Martin to Tolkien. You are diminishing the memory of great storyteller and insulting all of his fans. George had a chance with first three books to make it very big, however, he blew it.
There is no table of contents.  Best you get are categories "Comedy's", "Tragedies", etc.  From there you have to flip page by page to the play you want to read hoping that you one day find it.  Also a great many general errors as well with spacing.  Something that happens frequently is this:  SPEAKER 1: Blah blah blah. SPEAKER 2: Blah blah! SPEAKER 1: Blah!  Very glad I only paid $2 for this.
Wouldn't you think that after reading the boring book four I'd have had the brains enough not to buy book 5? In my own defense I have to say that somewhere or other I got the notion that book 5 would end the series, and so I bought it, just to see how it ended. Imagine my surprise when I discovered that this waste of time and money still has two more books to go before the series mercifully ends.  I have managed to wade through 300 pages of A Dance with Dragons and cannot bring myself to finish this seemingly endless mess of going nowhere. I almost said "going nowhere fast," but in fact, A Dance with Dragons goes nowhere painfully sloooowly.  What happened to the forward momentum that drove the first three books? What happened to characters we care about? What happened to--oh, never mind, if I keep this up it'll end up as long-winded as the book.
Perfect example of a brilliant story utterly destroyed by the creator himself... what a shame. I can't think of any reason why the writer, editors, publishers can let this happen other than to line their pockets. What would have been 3 books of literary masterpiece exploded into an indefinite number of books of utter ruination.  Watching the HBO series of A Game of Thrones just made the loss from reading AFFC amd ADWD more painful and unbearable. If I were HBO, I would rethink the series with the direction the writer is taking the books. If (and that's a big IF) HBO decides to finish the series to the very end (whenever that may be), I hope they spare the TV audience from 2 seasons of AFFC and ADWD doldrum and either combine these into one season or scrap these altogether. A Song of Fire and Ice may yet become a well-loved masterpiece (even if in another platform) and prove deserving of its following.
There might possibly be a good 300-page novel hidden in The Doorstop Previously Known as Dance, but if so, Martin is incapable of delivering it.   I don't find the story-beats to work at all as far as a standalone  novel goes: it seems like a bunch of bad TV episodes. The language is almost unreadably clich, and the cliffhangers an annoying joke. It's mostly a pointless meander with the possible exception of the Bran & Arya, Connington & Barristan, and Kevan Lannister viewpoints. The rest are too sparing of anything and everything it takes to make a decent story-line.  I certainly would not recommend this book to anyone who isn't already a fan of the series, nor do I any longer recommend the series to new readers unfamiliar with it.  That's because like the last two books in this series, both Dance and Feast, have spiraled down into the dumpster of tedium.  No thanks.
I am new to the series and was instantly hooked with books 1-3. But this was terrible. Book 4 was 'eh -- this was even worse. Just the simple truth.  Other than the last 1/3 of the book, literally nothing happens. It just goes on and on and on with location details and food details. Oftentimes it was painful to read. New characters that had NO EFFECT on the storyline were introduced, then removed. After putting me through chapters of boring info -- for what? Nothing.  The worst part is -- I wanted to like it! I pre-ordered it for Kindle and the formatting was TERRIBLE, made it even worse than it already was.  Don't waste your money. I think this series should have ended at Book 3 and when I recommend it to others -- I tellt hem "Stop at book 3 -- don't pay a penny for the rest."
The Title of the review says it all... The first three books where enjoyable, they moved well and gave the reader some sense of purpose, and closure to specific plots and caricatures. The fourth book was fabrication of a totally new storyline. Sure it had the son of a son of a son who lived on an island or found faith in a stranger face or some other ridiculous by in... All in all a total departure of the story of the other three. Some who died in the other stories somehow... AND TOTALY UNEXPLAINED, somehow come back to life... Seems someone's milking a plot to try to pull twelve or more books out of the deal. The SIX YEARS, SIX YEARS later we are asked to return to the plots of characters we know and love, are spun into tiresome tales of what they are wearing, who they are bedding and what risks they are about to take. Some more die, but thoughts are now on the line of, "Oh, are they really dead?" and some return that where dead and in two or three sentences are on again about their original quest. I literally skinned through a third of this book as I did the rubbish of the last. Though there are a multitude of chances for adaptation of the current themes they are obliterated without answer, or taken along another useless path that never needed to begin. Some morons call this guy the next R.R. Tolkien? At least He knew how to pull a plot together and when to end a story.  I will not be waiting for any other books of this story or this writer to spend my time nor wages on.  I can't wait that long ant it isn't worth it.
GRRM needs an editor who would give him a kick up his backside and tell him to get on with it ... i'm about 3/4 of the way through - and nothing has happened ... i'm going to search for a wiki somewhere to tell me what happens - i can't bear to complete the book.
No table of contents.  No way to figure out what play you are reading without going back to start of the play. No indication of how far you have progressed in the play.  None of the nice features described in reviews of the hardcover version - just straight text with no annotations or introductory essays.  An absolutely poor execution of conveting what likely a great book into a less than substandard kindle edition.  AMAZON, PLEASE PULL THIS TITLE IMMEDIATELY FROM THE KINDLE LIBRARY.  .
There are NO ANNOTATIONS - I wish Amazon would clean up its act and start posting accurate descriptions especially on the works of Shakespeare.  WHERE ARE FOOTNOTED/ANNOTATED EDITIONS OF SHAKESPEARE FOR THE KINDLE??
I'm commenting after downloading this book in February 2012, so I don't know if changes were made between some of the earlier reviews and when I saw it -- if so, they seem to have been changes for the worse.  I was encouraged to buy this edition because of the advertised "apocryphal" or hard-to-find plays, not sure I had them in my grandmother's hardcover edition of Shakespeare.  The problems start with the "quick-linking table of contents", which is, in fact, almost useless. It refers to each play by the words "the end" which are printed above the title to signify the conclusion of the previous work, and then proceeds to create an index point for any page where a capitalized heading was found.  The play's actual title may or may not also have been indexed.  For example, one index point is labeled A COURTEZAN, which happens to be a capitalized stand-alone line in the Dramatis Personae for "A Comedy of Errors".  I started to create a key for the table of contents in a Word document for my own use, but it is almost not worth the trouble.  There are various places where headings are printed twice in succession in the text of the play, such as PROLOGUE PROLOGUE for the Prologue of the "Life of King Henry V".  These repeats are not in any hardcover text - why are they in this Kindle edition?  I have not been able to read the plays yet because I am so distracted and put off by these flaws that many people might consider minor, but which really detract from the readibility of the text.  I will look around -- perhaps another publisher has done a better job.
Very disappointing book.  It had some cool moments, but overall it is still really bad.  Especially considering the huge amount time it took for Martin to finish it.  The characters just wander aimlessly and pointlessly.  He has broken down some of the coolest characters and made them borderline unlikable or useless.  There is so much filler information that I literally skimmed past a large part of the book.  Sloppy writing and abysmal editing make this easily one of the more disappointing books I have read.  Won't buy the next in the series.
I have been a fan of this series since its earliest days but this book is so bad, it confirms the widespread view that George has lost the plot completely. Almost 1000 pages AND NOTHING HAPPENS. Tyrion Lannister becomes a freak riding a pig, Daenerys disappears two thirds of the way through on a dragon (the only time a dragon features) after drifting around Meereen acting like a love lorn school girl. Jon Snow looks over the wall - interminably. Bran turns into a tree. Jamie and Cercie Lannister drift in and out. Stannis, the Freys and the Boltons get lost in the snow. Making this trio boring is some achievement. That's about it. No progress in the plot, the odd vacuous new character and pages and pages and pages of vague rambling and tedious debates between characters that would make Hamlet seem decisive. Could have been written as a short story - and still been to long. Come on George, finish it off and put us out of our misery.
I called this review the end of a saga because that's what this book is-the end. This is by far the worst book I have read this year and it is the last George RR Martin book I will ever read. I hate saying that because I was a fan before this one. Book three was a bit tiresome but there were new characters to build so I was okay with it. I don't even know who the characters are anymore but boy are they boring! By the end of the book I was hoping the dragons would go on a spree and just kill off everyone. I work in a bookstore and I had recommended this series to people, bet they never trust my judgment again. I see no way he save the series with the next 2 books because no one will remember enough to want to read anymore of this story and if they try to reread they will stop with this book. I'm really sorry George but you blew it and so did your editors by letting you run( on and on and on) with this story line. All through the book nothing new happens and then in the last few chapters you start killing off people and for no apparent reason except to get rid of them. I guess HBO wanted more filler for the series which I now know is doomed as well. Don't buy this book- you will be completely disappointed.
I ordered this book as a regular sized paperback: 7.9 x 5.1 x 0.9 inches. Tell me why I received an 11 x 8.5 x 0.6 inches book? This is supposed to be a gift and now it looks like I bought a text book. You should really update the product description to fit the correct size. Very upset.
To my great disappointment, the Kindle edition is simply a Guttenberg Project text, complete with their copyight notices prohibiting commercial distribution. The Kindle publishers did not even bother to add a usable table of contents. How can one locate anything in 50,000+ pages of text without any cross-referencing? I will be informing Guttenberg project about this - they are being ripped off.
I downloaded the sample chapter of this e-book, and immediately noticed two things. First, it's not properly using the Kindle "table of contents" feature. While there is a page near the front of the book that says "Table of Contents" on top and has links to the contents of the book, if you load up the Kindle's "Go to..." feature the "table of contents" button is grayed out, so they must not have tagged their table of contents page correctly.  Secondly, and much more importantly, there are no line breaks after the individual lines of dialogue in the play. Shakespeare's plays are mostly composed in iambic pentameter, and these iambic pentameter sections are almost always printed like poetry, with a line break after each "line" of five iambic feet, so that you can discern the meter more easily. In the sample chapter of this book, there are no such line breaks, and all the dialogue runs together into paragraphs. Having the line breaks in the right place is one of the baseline requirements for an edition of Shakespeare, so I give this one star.  If the publisher revises the book to correct these two features, then it'll be worth taking a second look at this edition. Otherwise, avoid it.
Impossible to navigate, poor formatting making it uncomfortable to get a flow off the page.  This will put you off reading shakespeare.  Check other editions.  Complete Shakespeare for 1 dollar?  You get what you pay for.
This version, like many cheaper versions, jumps right into the sonnets with no introduction nor table of contents. As best I can tell, it IS one of the cheaper versions, with no attempt at formatting and no real added value. Yet it's priced the same as the Oxford version which has a lengthy introduction (and introductions to each work), an active table of contents, and better formatting (about as good as you can find on the Kindle).  If you want to spend $28 for the complete Shakespeare, buy the Oxford. If you want a stripped-down, bare-bones Shakespeare, look at one of the $1.99 or $2.99 versions. Or maybe look for a free version on Guttenberg.
This Kindle book is not the $80 David Bevington edition.  If in fact you want that edition (with unique notes and a full introduction) don't buy this Kindle edition (in fact one doesn't exist).  The Bevington book is only for sale in hard copy.
A long awaited sequal.  I loved the other books in the series.  However, the delays had made me lose much interest, but I was shopping for a new book the day this came out and thought I would give it a try.  This is one of the few books I have purchased and read where I feel I deserve a refund.  It was horrible.  The writing was uninteresting.  The author uses dozens of the same phrases over and over again to the point of tedium.  The story barely moves and any originality that was once in the series has disappeared.  It is like reading a bad story by a high school writer.  The thing that used to be original about this series was the author's courage to build up charactors only to maim or kill them and his use of desires to flesh out the characters.  Now the author seems to like to use dirty words for the hell of it, with most not having any bearing on the story at all.  Where once you were not sure who would die or get hurt, it is now abundantly clear from the beginning of each chapter what is going to happen.  This has all gotten stale.  This will be the end of the series for me.  I wish I had listened to my gut and ended it one book sooner.
I remember finishing "Storm of Swords" like some people remember the Kennedy assassination. I know exactly where I was and how loud I screamed, and I couldn't wait to read the next book. The wait felt agonizing, and I practically kicked down the door of my local bookstore when "A Feast for Crows" hit the shelves. Within four pages I was engrossed, but thought Martin's decision to split the narrative was a rotten one, and couldn't believe that no one was able to stop him. Perhaps his publishers were so eager to see the next book in print they didn't care that Martin was suddenly writing like a rambling old man tanked on tranquilizers. After years of waiting I kinda gave up on the prospect of the final book ever becoming my mind candy, but when I spotted it at the bookstore I couldn't resist. Sixty pages deep I was bored out of my mind, and started skimming and skipping chapters - which resulted in missing absolutely nothing. Instead of "A Dance with Dragons" this book should be called "A Wish for Washy" since page after page is dedicated to meandering conversations between suddenly flummoxed characters incapable of toddler-level decision making. I can't believe how bloated this book is with meaningless, empty interactions between characters Martin has clearly forgotten as much as I had. Instead of rooting for my favorite characters I found myself hoping one would stumble upon blueprints for the sort of advanced weaponry that would wipe out the entire cast in a single swoop, and spare the world any further sequels.
Martin has lost control of this plot. This series has run amok like Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time did at Book 5 (as others have pointed out). There is amazing detail about lifestyle and cool terminology, but the plot line went nowhere. It just keeps diverging. It really is torture to read. I've heard WOT has recovered with the new writer, perhaps that can happen here also.  The American J. R. R. Tolkien?!? Ha! Not even close. This book has less progress than one chapter of the LOTR.
Well...  What a long wait for such a disappointing book!  I am sorry Mr. Martin but your series and your writing plots just don't cut it anymore.  Yes; their is acknowledgement that this series and this book is on par with JRR Tolkien; but as of today I would offer that that is a slap in the face based upon the new pillars in this genre.  Yup JRR Tolkien was good in his day but time passes and the reader becomes even more educated.  You would do well to read these latest authors like Steven Erikson (Malazans Book of the Fallen), Ian Cameron Esselmont (Malazans Book of the Fallen) and the creator of the new wave in this Genre; Glen Cook (Black Company).  Your story line and disjointed hiccuping from character to character continues to be distracting and tells a tale that now borders on boredom; you spend untold amounts of time devoting background detail to minor characters and the plot is so obvious that, even with probably two books to go, one might guess that Jon Snow (not dead yet even though it reads that way in this story) and Danerys will get married, save the world from a northern invasion of undead and live happily ever after...  geez  did Frodo really make it to the tower to destroy that ring through all those dangerous enemies?  course he did...  but our world is no longer 'happily ever after' is it?  And the ironic thing is -- if your storyline does become more grey and more gritty in the next volume it is proof that your original storyline was 'overcome by events'...  I highly doubt, after reading this many reviews, that the editorial comments saying your stuff appeals to the 'intelligent' readers is accurate... by all accounts it appears to me that the intellectual readers have rebuffed this latest concoction of disjointed stories...  a paltry average of "3" from this many reviews clearly indicates there remains 'no value' in your story line.  It is even more insulting to the intellectual that HBO have now created a mini-series to go with this...  a true sign that your storyline looks to appeal to the 'unimaginative'...  so how on earth does HBO create any sort of storyline from this latest book; if it ever gets there...  it jumps all around the place and even has mixed timing with the previous book...  wow...  and imagine all the folks tuning in to HBO when Cersei walks through the street naked...  shaved... from head to foot...  In closing I would offer that for those who have limited internal imagination your stuff is good; for those that stretch their minds and push imagination to the limit it is clearly a two horse race between Glen Cook and Steven Erikson...  I wonder if the thought of milking this story-line out to six or seven books (instead of the original four) came to mind now that HBO has created a mini-series for it!!!!  You, like Robert Jordan, have lost the plot on this evolving change in our genre!!!  Go grey go gritty and for pete's sake create a world of your own instead of piggy backing of the British Isles and the European Continent.
Pointless subplots abound! It's become clear that Martin hasn't got a clue where to go with this convoluted mess he's created.
Like many I came to this series when HBO premiered A Game of Thrones.  I'm disappointed for 2 reasons:  1. I bought this book for $14.95 for my Kindle (I thought I'd save money with a Kindle, you know?).  2. This book ENDED WHERE IT SHOULD HAVE BEGUN!  I will not read GRRM anymore, cuz he ain't getting anymore of my time nor hard earned money....
I could not.  I got bored part way through, decided to research what I was missing, found out I wasn't missing anything, discovered the rest of the book was going to be the same, and put it in the recycle bin.  I'm done with this series.
I pre-ordered ADWD and I repurchased and reread the first four books. ADWD SUCKS!!!!! AHHHHH! I WANT MY MONEY BACK!!! This book was SUCH a disappointment. Let's be clear, I enjoy Mr. Martins' writing style. His depth of character, wicked twists, breathtaking descriptions and a world that is unique and realistic. However, this particular book SUCKED BEYOND ALL THAT HAS EVER SUCKED BEFORE!!! I feel that this book is a stalling tactic for the HBO series to pull new fans into the series (AND the next two books) in order to make as much money as possible. I think Mr. Martin is fully aware of the suckyness of ADWD, and as a fan all I can do is SMDH. Shame on you Mr. Martin! It could still be good even if it was just a place holder! This book was a drag, a bunch of new characters I DO NOT CARE ABOUT (I have been trained by Mr. Martins previous 4 books not to care too much for any character as they may be killed off at the drop of a dime) I was bored with all the traveling here and sailing there and eating locusts and puppies and other nasty stuff, and still not tying up any conflicts, old or new, just creating more and more and more conflicts. Enough is enough. I first started the series 2001 and I am too through! I have also told all my friends and family who I bragged and bragged to about this series to that it is a big fat waste of time. I am selling my books to a newbie to the series. They won't know any better. SMDH.
This is the second time I have tried to get a  complete works of William Shakespeare in Spanish and they send me the English edition. I paid 29.29 cents to return a  set of books that cost only 22 dollars to purchase. Not happy. Dan C
Don't buy this if you want to read it, the formatting is terrible.  It's like whoever created it just rendered the public domain version in notepad and converted that to a e-book.  Instead buy "The Complete Plays Of Shakespeare (Special Kindle Illustrated and Commented Edition) for the same price.  Don't take my word for it, download a sample.  I ended up buying the other one.  This version should get zero stars.
Pondering!  Like James Joyce in middle earth. Merits 1 star for brief appearances of much loved characters. Wish I could give 0 stars for hubris of publishing this as literature.
After I finished the three first books, I thought the two that remained will brought me near the end of the series. Not so fast, the pace is so slow that travels that in the other books take from POV to POV of one character now last an entire book. Save yourself, these two books are not worth the money. No mayor action takes place, really. You can confirm this from a couple of forums, and better reviews than this one.
A "trilogy" in seven or more (potentially) volumes, several thousand pages, and nothing really happens.  We waited how many years for this "conclusion"???  I have lost all faith in Mr. Martin and in his ability to actually end a story.  The final pages of this book leave us with almost every interesting character either standing in a field, or half-way to a desired destination, wondering what comes next, or (even worse) suddenly killed without warning.  There is very little actual plot advancement from the end of Book Four.  The Bible required only 2 "Testaments" to cover a great deal of material.  War and Peace managed to be complete in ONE volume.  Many, many great authors have created satisfying masterworks in Trilogies..  Originally planned to be a trilogy, this series was (apologetically) expanded to 4 volumes.. which still didn't reach a conclusion.  Then there were FIVE volumes, with a promised "conclusion" that didn't happen.  Now there are chapters of a SIXTH volume making their appearance, with hints that a SEVENTH volume may be necessary.  Where does it end?  How many years?  Will Brian Sanderson be asked to complete this series when another five volumes eventually seem to be required. and Mr. Martin has retired at the age of 150?  Will my great grandchildren still be alive when the final page is completed?  Will the TV series run even longer than "The Simpsons"???  Give us a break, Mr. Martin!  It seems far easier to create a bunch of interesting characters than to know what to do with them.  There are far too many characters in this series for anyone to expect the author to track them all the way to their ultimate goals, so Mr Martin solves the situation by many, many sudden deaths.  Still, it would have been pleasant to see the main characters eventually achieve some kind of goal.  Even two of the three dragons vanish from the storyline shortly after being introduced.  The one star is for creating interesting characters.  Sorry that they are all, after all these years, left dangling or (at least temporarily) dead.
Five books later at an expensive investment, I will not read Book 6, 7, 8, 9.....???  I loved the first three, even four books.  Then this book five comes out...and what a crock!  A l,000 pages that could have been edited easily to 500 pages without sacrificing plot.  What plot....this book five just drags on and on....going nowhere.  Only in the last 200 pages did any of the story line progress at all.  Why does George R.R. Martin have to be so verboise?  His fifth book of meanderings is useless.  He is like a mad man on speed, going off on more tangents than need be.  I am angry that I spent the time and money on this one.  But I will learn my lesson.  Skip this book five.  It in no way adds to the the earlier four (that was suppose to be only a triology).  It could have been a triology, but the editors' were  evidently  afraid of facing the dragon RR Martin when he is  such a 'stark struck literary darling' as a never- ending golden  purse for the publishers.....to rein him in on verbriage that never should have been allowed.  But a golden calf is a golden calf....thinking of more gold by stretching these books out into infinity.  No, I quit the series, now, once and for good.
The book could not keep my attention. I read 13 chapters before giving up. It was a book club choice not my own.
I really don't see how anybody can give this half-finished junk more than one star. However, I must confess I haven't read it all. In fact, I have only looked up the end of Julius Caesar to compare with a recent production I went to. I was appalled to see several instances where a stage comment appeared as part of Shakespeare's glorious lines. For example, where Brutus commits suicide:  BRUTUS. Farewell, good Strato. Runs on his sword Caesar, now be still; .....  Even the stupidest, laziest proof reader should have spotted this and at least introduced bracketed italics for the stage instruction - something to make it clear that it is not part of the prose. This type of thing occurs so often with ebooks based on source that is out of copyright that one can only conclude that proof-reading is regarded as an extra. In addition to this type of error, this Shakespeare is very poorly and amateurishly formatted. They don't even bother to ensure that each play begins on a new page!  In short, unless you have no aesthetic appreciation for the greatest of literature, avoid this product - it is utterly without merit. It's time the producers of ebooks realised that it is essential to minimise errors in books - they are regularly used as references in course work, for example, and have to be reliable. Anything less is a confidence trick and should invite legal action.
Poorly formatted with sentences broken in half and continued 2 lines down. Each dialogue is separated by an empty line - a huge waste of space for Kindle owners. Look elsewhere.
Two weeks after finishing reading a Dance with Dragons I feel completely unfulfilled.  Great writing, lovely descriptions, hints of interesting things to come but very little (and I mean very little) action.  Most of the limited action that does occur, occurs off-page and essentially the story arcs advance almost not at all. This is 1000 pages of extremely well written fluff.  Hugely dissapointing!
Perhaps this actually is the complete works of Shakespeare,but with no table of contents, or section headings or anything similar, it is impossible to use. It is one long file starting with the sonnets. NO search capabilities, no way to find King Lear except by beginning on page 1 and going page-by-page till you find it.  Overpriced.
I consider myself "ripped off" after receiving this book. I should NOT have pre ordered...will not make this mistake again. This book seems to be edited out material that was thrown together to take advantage of the huge interest generated by the HBO series. I doubt the author ever meant to finish this series but saw the huge paycheck that he would get if he churned out another book. Last book I will buy from this author and last book I will ever preorder.
...and a story with this much potential and this many unresolved plot-lines should be anything but boring.  NOTHING HAPPENS!  I think the characters must have gotten frustrated with their creator, as he had them going around in circles much of the time.  I had to force myself to finish it...unlike the page-turning excitement of the other four books.  I mean, what WAS this?  Characters are all over the map, the story jumps around like a spastic insect, there are pages and pages of descriptions of the food and the clothes...and very little substance.  Cersei's one chapter was good and the description of Dany finally riding the dragon was excellent - but not much more.  Really.  I'll read the next two books because I want to find out what happens...but I hope they are better written than this ponderous tome.
I can only hope that the corpulent suet-monger George R. R. Martin reads some of the reviews from his "fans".  Like many fans of A Song of Fire and Ice, I enjoyed the sub plots, I enjoyed the thwarted plans, and yes, I enjoyed the mortality of his star characters.  I enjoyed a story that kept me up all hours of the night because I couldn't bring myself to put the book down.  In his latest installment, he's tried to do those things that he did in the previous books that kept us on the edge of our seats, and failed horribly.  Don't get me wrong, I was on the edge of my seat all right.  Waiting for that huge plot turning event.  Waiting for so many of the sub plots to be resolved.  And waiting.  And waiting.  And waiting.  *Potential Spoiler* (Though I'll try to be ambiguous)  When I got to the third to last chapter I found myself literally shaking with anger and restraining myself from throwing the book against the wall.  I honestly felt (and perhaps still do) that if George Martin were in my presence, I would punch him in his smug, obese face.  I can see killing off main characters, it's good story telling, hell it's great story telling, but at a point where you should be tying up loose ends, it is a flat betrayal of his readers to kill off one of the most loved characters in the book for zero gain.  A character that was central to tying up what is looking to be quite literally half the story that has not even been touched yet.  It is this reader's take that he did it just because he could.  A veritable "f*** you, don't get too comfortable" to his fan base.  The worst part?  Like so many other bright authors that burned out, I'll still buy the next book.  Simply out of morbid fascination to see what slop he'll feed us next.  Therefore, I concede defeat.  You've bested me, and so many other devoted readers who've been there since the beginning, waiting on every next installment.  Kudos sir.  A brilliant business model.  Enjoy your paychecks.  In parting, I hope my sentiments are shared by some of my fellow readers.
This book did nothing for me.  I have tried to read it several times, and I know it's a classic, but God help me, I hate it.  Maybe it's a girl thing, maybe it's a "girlie" girl thing, but it does nothing but irritate me.
Just finished the book and am completely PO'd. After the letdown of AFFC I thought there would be nowhere to go but up. What a disappointment. The plot lumbered along at a snails pace for almost 900 pages until my interest perked. And after the last Jon chapter I'm supposed to wait another six years to find out what happens? And why the heck did he even have the Prince of Dorne? What a waste. This ADD style of writing goes every which way but forward. I can't believe I waited this long for such a crappy book!
I loved the first 4 books of the series and expected to love this one.  I didn't. It seemed like the author simply used this as a money making opportunity based on his previous books.  His heart wasn't in it and neither was his story-telling skills.  There were many loose ends left and the ones he attempted to tie up didn't make sense or add to the story-lines.
This is not a review of content, but rather production of the record.  The content is 5 stars, but this is a shoddily made record.  I bought 2, one from a record store and then one from Amazon, and returned both.  Both copies would not play properly.  Brand new vinyl (even after being deep cleaned) should play flawlessly.  This sounded like something you bought at Goodwill.  Hiss, clicks, pops.  I take extraordinary care of my turntable, stylus and vinyl.  Here is what was wrong with it, the label was off center, causing the record to shift as is turned, the label had cuts in it, both copies in the same place.  This might be a bad run.  And lastly the edge of the record had gouges in it, I doubt it affected the playing but it certainly shouldn't look like that brand new out of the sleeve.  Thanks to Amazon for providing A+ customer support.  I will stick with the CD, which is a shame since I'm trying to phase out my CDs in favor of vinyl.
Careful here, this book is a complete scam.  It's called the complete works but actually only contains a single play.  Don't waste your money.
The seller makes the client believe that the book he is selling is the complete works of Shakespeare and IT IS NOT!! Do not buy from this seller!!! His dishonesty should be addressed!
GO BUY THE HARDCOVER EDITION. The paperback "edition" is just one play (Third Part of King Henry the Sixth, if that matters to you). I'm pretty angry that I spent twenty dollars on such a thing, though that doesn't excuse my lack of careful reading.
Not the complete works, not even remotely It is one play, with electronic access to the complete works. If I wanted the electronic version, I could get it online for free from Gutenberg Press. Deceptive advertising.
Buyer, beware.  The paperback version of this book is only 158 pages.  It is entitled "The Complete Works of Shakespeare", but in reality it is only one play.  I would have never spent $20.00 on just one play.  I should have looked more closely at the number of pages before purchasing it.  I also should have looked more closely at the reviews and noted they were written for the hardcover version which is over 1000 pages.
I waited a long time for this book, but it's the biggest disappointment I've had since the last installment of this aimless, plodding, series.  From the opening pages spent in the POV of a character we've never seen before and don't see again, through long dull chapter after chapter of only the briefest vignettes that do nothing to advance the story, to the bitter flat ending, I simply could not believe that it could possibly be this bad.  I kept waiting for the old George R R Martin to rear his head and tell an actual story.  But no.  Apparently, the old George R R Martin is no more.  I'll bet the only people more upset than the readers who've invested in this monumental waste are the execs at HBO who've agreed to another season of the show only to discover that Martin has failed to deliver anything that would sustain the project.  Hopefully, the people at Random House have Brandon Sanderson waiting in the wings and will bring him in to rescue this mess without George having to die for the honor.
I just finished the fifth book.  Although I am still interested in finding out how the Game of Thrones will end (in book 6, please) it seems that the fifth book unraveled more than it tied up.  In the 1980's I quit reading a certain series about a mystical gunslinger when it seemed the author had lost his way.  I waited until the series was complete to pick it back up. Perhaps that time has come again.
This book (ISBN 1458978672) is referred to on this website as the paperback version of the Bevington 6th ed (ISBN 0205606288). The reviews are even shared across the two items. But they are not the same book. This book has just 151 pages, whereas the Bevington book has 2000+ pages.
Too many additional open-ended plots and storylines, just as a FFC.  Progression of this series is dragging on and on and on.  There is no need to introduce 10 new characters with each new volume.  Adding characters (who are EXTREMELY uninteresting) just shows a lack of creativity.  This spent WAY too much time on characters in the free cities; those characters are boring and pointless.  This book was ALMOST as worthless as a Feast for Crows.  The past two volumes of this series have just been a sad decline of a, once, brilliantly told story of characters you WANTED to connect with.  Going from a book that was entirely written on characters we're set up to hate to the characters we're supposed to love (in Dance with Dragons), I was dismayed at the lack of progression in the characters.  Not enough time spent on Arya, Bran, or Jon.  Too much on Tyrion, in which none of the chapters focused on character growth..just a wandering around aimlessly...soooo boring.  Only good thing that happened in this good were the couple chapters on Cersei.  I would suggest readers of a Song of Ice and Fire stick to the first three books.  Poorly done, this go-round.
i purchased this edition expressly because it claimed to be easily searchable.  When I downloaded it to my Kindle, I discovered this was falsely advertised.  I am very disappointed in this purchase.
I ordered a book, received it a few days after the last day of estimated arrival, and then it was the wrong book.
We all know that names sell books and authors/editors are always tempted to fill the bookshelves with mediocre stuff...it is the case, nothing happens. The characters wander without direction strongly suggesting thatbthe author does not really know what to do to fill another book before finishing. As Brienne in  Feast of Crows the characters go around without getting anywhere. Worst, The thing I most liked in the series, that characters actually die, has completely disappeared. Now everybody is saved at the last moments, Catelyn, Davos, Brienne, Asha Greyjoy...they all seem to die and then reappear... My advice, wait to the next one and if you are an extra fan wait a couple of months to get this second hand, there will be lots available
Audible Audio Books  I've just purchased George RR Martin audio book from Audible.com. All I can say is don't do it! Theses guys have a band width of K-Bits. What are they thinking? Theoretically ;) if I torrent (highly illegal), I get speeds over 1Mb/s sometimes 2.  So Audible in this affair it's not me it's you! A short romance but as soon as I've listened to this book you're dumped. Do Something! Otherwise I shall live out my life as pariah on the fringes of cyber space, and fly through onion networks and smash the Private-I's with peer block!
There is a reason that 40% of reviews of ADWD are 1 or 2 stars.  As good as A Game of Thrones is wonderful this book is so uninteresting that I couldn't wait to stop reading it: picking it up now and then, like any addict, hoping for a fix that never comes or satisfies.  The trajectory of this series is much like that of free falling object. If the first couple of books hadn't sucked me in I'd have stopped reading this one in the middle, much like I was quick to jettison Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time which at least kept my interest for 5 books. This much I know: If Martin ( who is as far from being an American Tolkien as the nearest blackhole is from earth) doest wrap this abomination up in book six I won't even bother to finish.  I can't imagine that Martin in his heart of hearts truly believes this work comes within light years of approaching A Game of Thrones.  Maybe we are expecting too much and Martin is just another one hit wonder.  You can't help but wonder if he is dragging this out for the money.
This a great book at a great price. I love Shakespeare and just wanted to own the complete works. I found this great book at a bargain.
The book that I received was not the one that I ordered on Amazon.com. The book cover and the content of the book is not anything like the book that I ordered. The only thing that is the same is the title of the book. On the book that I received there are only stones on the book cover, on the book advertised from the website there is a chair.  I went back to Amazon.com and double checked the book that I ordered and this is not it. I bought this book for the sole purpose of having a collection of Shakespeare's works. The book that I recieved was only Shakespeare's work from Cymbeline and Timon of Atens. This book was advertised on the Amazon.com website to have "Includes a Huge Collection of the Comedies, History, Poems, Romances, Tragedies, and works of William Shakespeare." The book that I received only includs two works from Shakespeare.
This book does not have a table of contents.  Can you imagine finding what you want in the COMPLETE works of Shakespeare without a ToC?
Nothing is resolved.  No plot lines are advanced.  There's a lot of florid prose, though.  Nice.  At least we get a dead main character.  Nice going, George; only 96 to go and you can have a full wipe.
Lack of glossary or footnotes, as well as scant (one-page) introduction to each play make this compilation more suited to the Shakespeare veteran than to the casual or even novice reader. I regret not checking out The Pelican Complete Shakespeare before buying this.
It is no wonder it took Martin so long to finish this book. He seems to have lost track of his vision. It sprawls outward and not forward, and not in a great-secondary-plot-threads kind of way. Westeros is almost an afterthought while we hang around in other parts of the world doing virtually nothing. To the man who wrote the first three books in this series, this should be an embarrassment, but I don't think it is. I think here he is reveling in his admittedly elegant prose, and apparently there was no editor saying, "Uh, George, this book isn't very good." Maybe there was, actually, and the editor finally gave up realizing that this is the best he or she was going to get. This book is not important. It is at best a stopgap, at worst an absolute failure. And when at the end yet another of the few characters left with any honor inexplicably goes down under a hail of steel, I threw the book in the trash. Never again will I be so ignorant as to think that just because an artist has done great things before that he will continue to do so. I have been guilty of it many times, but this book taught me the lesson sure. It's my fault for buying it sight unseen, but his fault for writing it. I have no idea what HBO will do when they run out of books and he hasn't finished the next one yet. The series is now going to be seven books. Can we shoot for $nine? Please no. Neither he nor I are likely to live that long. "The tale grows in the telling?" In this book, the tale is slain by the teller with soporific writing. I don't care how the whole thing turns out if I have to go wading like that again. I hate to say it, but the dream may be over, folks.  Martin gave us three great books in a row. That's all we can ask really. It's an amazing accomplishment. Very few writers have done it. It's the nature of great art. It has proven almost impossible to sustain.
Readers may be interested to learn that State Street Press in Ann Arbor MI, owned by Borders, has a Complete Works out for $19 New which is printed on nice paper (which does not bleed through under hiliters) and weighs less than 2 lbs. Sounds impossible, but true. The page edges are even gilded and the binding is leatherette. Recommend it heartily to all readers, with 5stars.
Better than A Feast for Crows, but not by much. The plot is bogged down by numerous POVs, but the format idea is not necessarily the problem because the 1st (AGOT) and the 3rd (ASOS) books maintained a brisk pace with multiple POVs.  If AFFC was half a book and ADWD was meant to complete it, I still don't see evidence of a story among the 2000 pages of these two books. Other reviewers have already covered the problems regarding descriptions, repetitions, sluggishness and liberal use of cliffhangers. But what amazes me is that a week after reading the book, I can't recall any truly remarkable scenes from the book apart from one or two sets of dialogues.  The drop in quality in the 4th and 5th books is quite alarming and does not bode well for the next volumes. And it doesn't seem likely that this series will end in 7 books. With the pace set by AFFC and ADWD, I doubt it will end in 10 books.
I think I have read my last George R. R. Martin novel.  Virtually no plot movement, every chapter ends in "mystery".  How many more years is Martin going to waste coming up with the next book, and how many more books does he really intend to release?  I am done with this series. Martin clearly has no idea how to move the plot along, the only other thing dying besides the main characters in this story is Martin's professionalism.  Maybe we can talk Sanderson into finishing this series as well.
This is NOT the full or accurate text of Little Women by Louisa May Alcott!! It is only half the book, and they have changed/modified the language so the classic characters use modern slang.
I cant read this book because I hate the narator. I hope they re-record the book so I can enjoy (or not) it.
I was given this edition of Shakespeare for a Christmas one year when I was young. Once I began to appreciate Shakespeare, I did some readings in this work. It was okay.  Then it became painfully obvious: with no line numbers, no margin space for notes, abridged names, no footnotes nor any research, it became rather difficult to closely study Shakespeare with this edition.  That is when I purchased the Norton edition of Shakespeare. Although there are still abridged names, it has a very clear layout, notes, and enough margin to make anybody happy.
I have not received this order yet. I am contacting the supplier now.
Martin insists that he's got everything under control, that plot isn't the be-all and end-all, that he is equally concerned with "character development" and "world-building", that his epic is "resting", as with Tolkien in The Two Towers.  Really?  In The Two Towers, Tolkien (the genuine article, not the "American" counterfeit) manages to develop plot, character, and build his world (including several races and languages) simultaneously, and while he's "resting", he chronicles a major battle at Helm's Deep, the destruction of Isengard and the overthrow of Saruman, and Frodo's fight with Shelob and subsequent capture by the Orcs. And all in 400 pages.  This is "resting"?  Martin is not the "American Tolkien" nor any other kind of Tolkien. He is, if anything, the prose equivalent of Yanni, perpetual middle and no end. Those who love this kind of work -- stylistically similar to The Osbournes, The Kardashians, New Jersey Housewives, even The Sopranos (particularly if Tony had been killed during the first season) -- will likely love this, and will continue to do so as the characters, plots, venues and volumes multiply.  Martin had a promising first act, but the literary world is replete with promises that quickly fizzle. Perhaps the publishers could give the series a title more fitting to lowered expectations: Westeros Housewives.
Get an editor! Finish the story! Is that really so hard? Review the first 3 books and make the next one like those!!!!!
This book has about one-fifth the "story line" even of book 4, and instead fills the pages with excruciatingly detailed descriptions of the bloody flux, greyscale, bad weather and maggoty food.  NOT what one would expect from the author being touted as the "American Tolkein." It's utterly unsatisfying, to the point where I am dumping it and the other 4 books at the local library. If you feel compelled to read it, just to find out how bad it is for yourself, at least don't spend any money on it.  Go get it at the library.  You'll feel slightly less ripped off that way
Shakespeare may be a genius, but cmon, this is the worst reading material i have ever seen.
I bought this book for my daughter but Font is too small to read. This is not good for kids.
this really wasn't that bad.advise to george:finish the series.you're not young.you're going to die before you finish this series.you might want to get in touch brandon sanderson.
Can't work out why this was such a publishing success - but I'm a male. Other children's books, like Anne of Green Gables, are streets ahead of it.
In addition to what other's have said regarding the lack of momentum in the story, the amount of torture in this book really left a bad taste in my mouth.  I don't see what purpose the vivid torture descriptions serve.  I think torture can be alluded to and still make the point.  Really disappointed with this book.  So much so that I've given up on the series.
I just finished A Dance with Dragons.  I gotta say it has been the worst of the series.  It meanders about with no purpose.  Martin introduced at least 8 new characters who play significant political roles, but had come out of nowhere.  No foreshadowing.  And almost nothing happened in those 1000 pages.  The ending?  There almost was no ending, really.  Reading this series is like watching Lost--the individual scenes are pretty good, but you wonder more and more with each new book/episode whether the writer has any clue where he's going with it all.  All in all, a waste of paper, if you ask me.
A huge disappointment.  After all the promises that this one would be better than AFFC, we end up with a book like this.  After 1800 pages spread of two novels and lacking any real plot advancement, perhaps a better title for this latest book would be "Slouching towards a possible finish sometime in the future, but don't hold your breath, 'cause I'm making waaaaay too much money".  Everyone now likes to compare Martin to Robert Jordan, but what an insult to Jordan!  Face it, we've never seen an author who has spun out a series for so long, and whose writing has declined so steeply, and yet made so much money.
I loved Martin's first three books, but I doubt I will read another in this series. He is no Tolkien.  I don't mind a 1,000 page book if it is interesting, has a good plot, and the characters are well-developed.  However, I feel that Martin thought he was being paid by the word!  This particular book is supposed to run parallel to book four.  He admits that book four was running too long and that he split it.  Well, he should have taken one of the swords from the book to it.  It gives you the feeling that he cut all the description or stuff he didn't like in book four and threw it into book 5 as an after thought.  He keeps killing off old characters and creating new ones, as well.  This makes the book seem disjointed.  I wound up skimming a great deal and forcing myself to read through to the ending.  Only a few story lines were resolved in the book.  I am really disappointed.
I decided to read this series based on reader reviews of the first book, A Game of Thrones, as well as several descriptions of Martin as the "American Tolkien". I have been very disappointed. Not only does the series get progressively tedious, comparing it to 'Lord of the Rings' is insulting to readers of classical literature everywhere. I can tell you that this series will never become a treasure, will never be on school reading lists and is inappropriate for anyone under 18 due to the graphic sexual violence (and I mean very detailed descriptions of gang rapes, sodomy, incest and molestation) as well as equally detailed child abuse and spousal abuse (against men and women).  In a series like this you do expect war related violence, awful crimes and terrible characters, but you also expect some good guys too - and you expect a point to all the madness. There is no Frodo in this series, no grand quest and few true moments of greatness from any character. I read books 1, 2 and 3 ... after that I tried book 4 and ended up skipping it after I read how pointless it was from other reviews. I didn't buy book 5 since the series was starting to turn my stomach. Instead I checked it out from the library, read 1/3 of it and gave up, returning it unfinished.  If you are expecting another LOTR, don't bother with this series. In fact, if Tolkien had ever written anything like this he would probably been arrested as deranged and locked up. Seriously - it gets that graphic and frequently - less so in the first 2 books but book 3 starts the downward slide and Martin just does nothing to redeem the series after that.  Just my thoughts - I wish it wasn't so, because this could have had been a great literary series with decent editing.
I never write reviews, but this book just made my blood boil. I defended GRRM many times for being 5 years late with this book, after all, good writing takes it time. So I expected a good book, with plot you know? Instead I got an overly expensive travelguide for a country I have no chance ever visiting, what a rip-off! The Bran, Davos and Arya chapters are phenomenal, but too few to save this book from all the horrible Dany-chapters. And worst of all, George has turned Tyrion into a boring character, or he has at least written utterly boring chapters about him.  What is most frustrating though: all this drivel could have been written in a single year, only predictable things happen and most of the story is about the scenery. What has he been up to? Meereenese knot? I don't see it. God, how I wish he just had inserted the 5 year gap. All the last chapters of the POV characters in AFFC and ADWD are great (except for Dany of course, who had 1 good chapter in this book thanks to Strong Belwas(and Tyrion actually doesn't have a last chapter!)).  George RR Martin, I defended you, but now you have called me a sockpuppet for writing a bad review on Amazon. Because only sockpuppets and detractors write bad reviews anonymously on the internet! Screw that, you just keep thinking you're the American Tolkien. I have joined the ranks of GRRuMblers and urge everyone to only buy this book when the series is done, perhaps then it will have its charm.
Wow...Let me start off by saying that I just watched the entire first season of Game of Thrones and I really liked it (as I did the first few books)..... However, I really can't say much about this book... I guess I am in some kind of shock after realizing that I just read 1000 pages where absolutely nothing happened..... All I will say is, if you are looking for a good book (or even a decent one) I would not recommend you read this one..... At times you feel like the plot is picking up only for it to go off to 10 random chapters of what feel like filler material.....  I'll pass on the next books
(This review is of course not on the plays and works themselves which are beyond praise, but on this particular edition). All pieces are packed in two columns, without separating pages, a few ugly frontispices, no table of content. Typography is old, greasy. Looks like the fac-simile of a cheap 19th century edition. No notes, no variants, no references, unpractical to read or to use in study, no added value.  I do not recommend this at all for any purpose.
Upon opening this book I immediately turned to my favourite play, Romeo and Juliet.  My favourite scene is the opening battle between the Montagues and the Capulets.  But what have we here?  Suddenly the families are reversed.  Sampson and Gregory are servants to Montague, not Capulet, and Abraham has apparently switched teams as well.  Gregory says that one of his kinsmen is coming, and then Benvolio enters.  Benvolio is a montague, which just goes to prove that they are montagues, and not servants of capulet.  I don't know the rest of the plays as well, but for all I know there could be many more easily missed mistakes in the text.
Normally, it's almost impossible to get me to stop reading a book series in the middle of it.  But I won't be buying the rest of this series.  Maybe in 20 years, if it is in the library (if we still have libraries), I'll borrow the last book and see if the ones in the middle might be worth reading.  I just didn't like any of the characters in this book.  Tyrion and Daenyris are not as compelling as they have been in earlier books.  None of the characters felt real anymore, their behavior just didn't seem consistent with how they've been written in earlier books.  Plus, no progress on plotlines after a how many year wait?  The series for me ended with this book.
Guess what! This is a great book! JUST KIDDING! It's HORRIBLE! IT IS BY FAR THE WORST BOOK I HAVE READ IN MY ENTIRE LIFE! I would never, ever, ever, ever buy this book. NEVER! Oh, did I mention how bad the writing is? The writing is HORRIBLE! IT IS THE WORST WRITING THAT I HAVE READ IN MY ENTIRE LIFE!  If you are bored enough to read this book, you have way too much free time and don't deserve to have the money that it costs to buy it.  I really don't know why everyone says that Shakespeare is such a great writer. He isn't.
I'm glad to see I'm not the only one who is sooo done with these books and hopefully can save someone else the pain (and money) of starting to read Fire and Ice. I travel and reading passes the time on the planes so that is my excuse. I just read Book 5 hoping for some conclusions or directions.  A big book and NOTHING REALLY HAPPENS of consequence other than the usual.  What I got is more characters (at least 4) that Martin writes about in exhausting detail about their life and feelings and their grand plans suddenly dying within half a page. Quite a few are killed off by a "note from a raven" so it is not even covered, then another is killed just as quickly and then their story ends and that is it and Martin SUCKS!!! DO NOT BOTHER READING THIS BOOK. (Do I sound bitter?)
I really wanted to like this book.  I paid for it after all.  (Spoiler Alert)  Sadly Martin continues his painful tradition of killing off the honorable characters and letting his evil ones live to fight another day.  Enough, we get it, life is hard on Westros.  I think he will lose a lot of readers as they have fewer and fewer options to cheer for.  As one writer quipped by Book 6 or 7 the only group he will have left to write about will be the Others.
Be forewarned - this edition is ONLY part 1 of Little Women. When Alcott originally published Little Women, it was only part 1. After its success, she followed it with Good Wives. These two volumes were published together as Little Women starting in 1880. This publisher has separated the two, and is selling them as separate titles. If you are expecting the complete text of Little Women, DO NOT buy this edition.
This is rubbish. Its like a really long Feast of Crows. What I mean is that it meanders, as one previous reviewer mentioned, its marching marching marching, food stores, commanding men, and more marching. I was so disapointed as I was hoping that Feast of Crows was a blip. But this book, jeez, you read whole chapters that don't expand the story at all. Without spoilers, he seems to spend a great deal of time on some characters with a poor resolution, it leaves you thinking, what the hell was the point of that ! Why did I need to know about this person? How is this progressing the story at all. Also, Dany who seemed to evolving into a strong female character without being a total b**ch turned wishy washy. I really liked her and her story didn't develop at all. Wasn't impressed and will not be getting the next book without seeing reviews first. It may be cheating but I sure as hell am not wasting my money without confirmation its worth it. 6 years !! 6 years waiting !!!!
Are you kidding me? This book was such a disappointment and if I could ask for a refund I would.  The material seemed like it was written to meet a deadline.  It was rushed and repetetive.  It seemed as if though all of the main characters are being killed off while new ones take their place.  The story line is so combobulated that it is hard to keep up.  What a let down to read after having read A Game of Thrones.  To add insult to injury, there are still 2 more books to read in the series and who knows when they will be released.  I am not holding my breath on the quality of the next two.  Sorry George, this one bit the dust!
I began to feel about halfway through the third book that this series had gotten away from GRRM - he'd killed off most of the interesting and sympathetic characters and didn't know what to do with the ones who were left. The fourth book was bad and this one is just terrible. A boring, painful slog through a meandering plot, endless details, and tangential stories about random characters, most of whom are either new to the book or so un-memorable they might as well be. I'm imagining our author laughing hysterically about having written as bad a book as he could and still selling it. That's the only explanation I can come up with.
Briefly...sorely disappointed in this. Maybe I lost interest over the long years in-between, but I SO looked forward to it based on the previous books, and sad to say this one was returned after trying t slog through just 150 pages! No more fantasy series for me, because this book proved they never know when to end. What a grave disappointment.
I wish I could say it took me two weeks to finish this book because I was savoring it.  After all I had been so excited that I pre-ordered this book the first day I could.  Heck, I almost ordered it via the UK Amazon just so I could get it sooner, but after the bad taste "A Feast..." left in my mouth I wasn't quite willing to shell out the big bucks that would have required.  I was giddy with anticipation, and having been reminded how good the series is by HBO, I felt like a kid at Christmas when the UPS man dropped off my copy of "A Dance..."  Two weeks and a thousand pages later, George RR Martin has lost me as a reader.  Never mind the five years, the nine other books he published or edited between "A Feast..." and "A Dance...", or the slow paced unsatisfying novel that "A Feast..." was.  It would have been worth it had this book delivered.  I would have gladly gone back to being the GRRM fanboy I was, preaching the wonders that is his Song of Ice and Fire, but no.  I can't.  Much has already been said about how long the book is.  Its long and you feel every page.  The words crawl by, the plot and stories advance sluggishly at best, and new characters are introduced to replace characters that have been killed off, brought back, and killed off again.  The existing characters, exist only as a backdrop to the history and turtles that GRRM wants to talk about.  Only rather than telling those stories, through characters, plot lines, and differing points of view, he reduces characters, such as Tyrion, to disinterested third party narrators.  Gone is the suspense, missing is the magic, and lost is the laser like focus of the first three books.  It should say a lot that the most interesting plots in "A Dance..." seem almost tacked on, after thoughts to the story GRRM wanted to tell.  Though rougher, and less polished than the main storylines in the novel, these "other" stories show flashes of brilliance and a return to storytelling that made GRRM great in the first place.  Sadly though, these stories are few and separated by hundreds of pages, and dozens of chapters about nothing.  More tragically its seems that GRRM has found his "Wesley Crusher", something he had managed to avoid doing (or at least managed to avoid being eye stabbingly obvious) about in his prior books.  This is perhaps the biggest disappointment for me, authors need to keep themselves and their Mary Sue's out of their books.  One last note and only because I haven't seen it mentioned in the other reviews.  GRRM interjected quite a bit of his personal views and politics in both "A Feast..." and "A Dance...".  There is nothing wrong with this as such, most authors do this, without even realizing it.  They project their world view upon a fictional world of their own making and its impossible for it not to happen.  "A Dance..." very much became a heavy handed and preachy vehicle for his politics.
a Feast for Crows was about the characters you didn't want to read about, a Dance with Dragons has all your favorite characters, but you don't care about what they do. First of, I like his work, the first three books where about the best I have read in a long time I even was willing to forgive the meandering nothingness of AFFC but here we are at book five of a supposedly 7 book series and George RR Goodkind has just doubled the cast with a myriad of until now unknown characters.  Many pointed this out but if you combine AFFC and ADWD and edit it down by 50% you actually get a decent novel that I would even call on par with the earlier books, but if you have to wade through the muck of a description of the menu of every, Inn, brothel and winesink in Westeros and beyond it gets old quick. For instance why follow Cersei scheming her way into trouble in AFFC and then have her show up for two chapters. These two chapters alone would have redeemed AFFC whereas here they just appear out of place, same thing with Brienne. Instead of doing this stupid cliffhanger in AFFC show her cut the bargain and give her one more chapter and then finish. Imagine AGOT ending with Dany walking into the fire, not the morning after.  And that gets me to the cliffhangers, every single chapter throughout the book seems to have one of these silly contrived cliffhangers whenever something happens, it is an annoying TVesque plot device, the tool of the desperate writer, all that's missing is put in a few ads between the chapters to make it complete.  This is poor writing obviously influenced by the HBO series, he has lost his way and I lost interest in this series, I really don't care enough to keep intersted and to wait another 5-7 years for the next installment. I'm checking out of this one...
I went to Amazon.com to order the book, but after reading the reviews, I decided not to bother. I have read all 4 books hoping for some closure. I am not about to read another thousand pages of Martin's rambelings and feel the same way. Sorry George,you lost me. Even Harry Potter and The Lord of the Rings had more substance. I thought the first 4 books were OK, not great.
Terrible...It seems as though he just writes and writes with no plan for his characters. One of the most frustrating books you will ever read. Nothing importance happens in the book. There is no direction... even worse he continues to have his characters take steps backwards. This series continues to be more and more disappointing as each book progresses. He introduces the price to the sereis  when the thought is that he has been dead all this time???? Terrible.. He should be ashamed....
Over the course of the last few weeks, I have dragged myself through George R. R. Martin's latest, A Dance with Dragons, the fifth book in his Game of Thrones series.  I'm done. No more. I'm not reading any of his books any more.  It's terrible. Martin has taken the concept of the pot-boiler to an extreme -- it's a novel where nothing happens other than continual seething, roiling turmoil. He whipsaws the reader through a dozen different, complex story lines where characters struggle to survive in a world wrecked by civil war -- one other problem is that I'd hit a chapter about some minor character from the previous four books, and struggled to remember who the heck this person is, and why I'm supposed to care -- and again, nothing is resolved. Well, not quite: major characters are brutally killed, if they're male, and graphically and degradingly humiliated into irrelevance if they're female. I guess that's a resolution, all right -- perhaps the last book will be a lovingly detailed description of a graveyard, draped with naked women mourning?  And all the death and destruction accomplishes nothing. It doesn't further the plot, it doesn't change any situations.  There is still a mysterious, supernatural menace lurking beyond the great wall to the North; but don't worry about them, they do absolutely nothing in the entire book. That's the problem with the undead: inertia. They just kind of lie there.  The expatriate princess with the dragons was supposed to be a great threat, promising invasion. She decides to hole up in one city and dither with palace intrigues for the whole book, while everything falls apart around her. She takes a lot of baths, though, and I felt like her primary role in Martin's mind is to provide nude scenes for the HBO serialization. The dragons? Pffft. Random SFX carnage.  The dwarf ping-pongs about from place to place, commenting cynically. We're supposed to care about what imaginary continent he's on in this chapter, or what city or boat or troop of rapscallions he finds himself in now. I didn't.  There's a war going on, you know, and one of the kings in this multi-sided conflict is marching his army off to attack a castle. In a snowstorm. Which leads to the army being mired down and starving. For the entire last half of the book. Those chapters would have benefited greatly if they'd just been left blank and white (blizzard, get it?)  In his afterword, Martin complains about how his last book "was a bitch. This one was three bitches and a bastard." I can sympathize. Writing over a thousand pages of dull, dragging, incestuously self-referential, soap-opera style narrative in which nothing happens must have been a torment. I understand he's committed to writing at least two more of these overblown pop fantasy novels, but I don't think he's at all committed to bringing anything to a conclusion. George R. R. Martin has successfully penned himself into a lucrative writerly hell of his own creation. I have a recommendation that would spare him some pain: stop now. Roll around happily in your money, and enjoy a prosperous retirement. It's not as if anyone expects anything to ever be resolved in your fantasy world, so just ending it now is the same as ending it at book #7. Or book #1, for that matter. I've reached an end that is as satisfying as anything I expect from this story, which is not satisfying at all.
Reek Reek, fell from his peak(Martin that is).  Six years to publish this.  They wore this, and ate that, blah blah blah!  So many chapters told from the person Theon Greyjoy, empty filler.  The story is no longer intriguing and interesting, it is aimless and never ending.  Martin has even managed to make Tyrion a bore with his constant reference to his father.  Tyrion ends up riding a pig, Martin ends up writing one!
I completely agree with everyone that give this book one star.  I think even one star is being extremely kind.  I really liked the books leading up to this one.  We all understand that early times were harsh for everyone.  This was an unnecessary and tedious journey into the worst of times without any "best of times".  I want my time back!
I came to this series late, so I wasn't bothered by the fact that each and every novel left so many plot lines hanging.  I was able to immediately start the next book in the series and that was fine for the first few.  But enough is enough!  I don't see anything getting wrapped up and have no appetite for a ten or twelve book series.  They just aren't that good.  If GRRM would just lose some of the endless and boring detail about meals and store houses and family lines that having nothing to do with the story, this might have been a wonderful series.  Maybe five books...tops.  Like many others have said...I find myself skimming past monotonous trivialities just to find some meaningful plot movement.  GRRM must feel this brings richness to the narrative, but after five books, it has just gotten tedious.  I feel like I skimmed past at least a third of the book.  This series reminds me of the television series "Lost."  It was interesting at first, but the writers "lost" their way and it became a convoluted mess with an unsatisfying ending.  Some people will love it to the end, but I'm afraid I won't be along for the ride.  At this point, I'm not convinced the author himself knows where the series is going or when it will end.
Background: loved books 1-3 of the series. Like many, hated feast. Sadly, this book is more similar to Feast than the first three. Almost nothing happens, and the few interesting events are dealt with in severely truncated fashion. Martin spends most of his time having insignificant characters blather about insignificant events. It's a severe disappointment.  SPOILERS AHEAD.  The handful of interesting events:  Jamie runs off with Brienne, but we hear nothing about this beyond the fact that he runs off.  Rhaegar's son is apparently alive and heads back to Westeros. Once again, nothing happens with it.  Dany gets on a dragon and flies off. Something happens, but it's not particularly interesting and does not occur until the end of the book.  That brief summary more or less provides all the substance from the book. No need to buy it; just read the wikipedia entry. You'll get just as much out of it, and save a bit of money, and a LOT of time.
This was the most boring of all the novels. The first two books were the best, thereafter, GRRM just wandered off. Nothing of substance has happened in the last book or in this one. All the characters remained where they were or kept meandering from one meaningless adventure to another. What a let down!!!!!!!!!!
What can i say? The story does not move at all. Infact the story may have moved backward. Nothing happend and it was like reading a science book. Alteast even in a science book you do run into something here and there  Some of the characters were no longer the characters who were. Tyrion and everything. nothing happens except that i trudged through the papers  Editors please
Its all been said. Instead of clarifying and trimming down excess loose ends for a more cohesive story this book does the opposite. No resolution to any of the existent plots with an additional half dozen pointless and meandering arcs that go nowhere. The events of this book could be condensed into 300 pages and nothing would have been lost. There is absolutely no reason Feast and Dance could not have been a single novel, none. 60% of this book is strange humiliation porn, description of food, ships, traveling while going nowhere and additional story-lines that have no reason to be included. The plot has not progressed one inch from Feast.  And the haphazard way the story ends is simply insulting. I am a big fan of Martin but its simply hack writing to have so much dead weight followed by cliffhangers (and using the term cliffhanger is being very generous)to the only substantial plot develops the novel sees.  1000 pages and 6 years and the story goes nowhere. Such a disappointment. Judged on its own this is a 2.5 star book. But coming from the lineage of Martin this book deserves 1 star.
DON'T BUY IT UNTIL MARTIN STOPS TRAVELING THE WORLD AND FINISH THE STORY. YOU OR HIM MAY BE DEAD BEFORE IT HAPPENS AND BE FOREVER DOOMED AT THE ICE AND FIRE LIMBO
Although I am a tremendous fan of Louisa May Alcott, and was excited to buy this collection, it was a waste of money.  I could not navigate anywhere in the collection.  I managed to get to the first page of the book MOODS, but it would never turn a page!  Thank goodness it was not expensive, but wasn't even worth the $1.99 I spent.  Such a disappointment because this supposedly had some of her rarer stories.
Nothing happens and those things that do happen just piss you off... the book go no where and once you hit the last 5 chapters you want to throw it out the window becuase of what happens to a certain character...  I loved all the other books, this one just dragged its feet and dissapoints severally.  Not sure if I even want to purchase the last 2 in the series when they appear in 2035~ only took what 5 years for this one....  /rant
Nearly 1,100 pages and that is all he can progress the plot line?  Do we really need to hear over and over about what people are wearing?  All the wasted pages on food and clothing descriptions should have been used to end the book on something besides multiple cliff hangers.  I gave Martin the benefit of the doubt after the last book but I will not recommend that anyone read this until the series is complete.  Five plus years is just too long to wait for this kind of junk.
Very disappointed in this book.  Bogged down in details that muddy the plots and story's direction. Too many irrelevant chapters on certain characters, i.e. Daenerys, and not enough on others.  ADWD and AFFC have left a sour taste in my mouth relating to this series.  What started out as an excellent storyline, in the first F&I books, now appears as below average writing trying to extend the F&I series as much as possible to cash in on its popularity,aka the Stephen King disease of writing.  At this point am highly doubtful that I will want to buy anymore of the F&I books in the future if ADWD and AFFC are any indication of what can be expected in future books in the series.
1000 pages of endless dithering.  Dany has three dragons but can't bring herself to work with them.  Too many different characters doing different things with little story cohesion.  Just when a chapter actually gets going it ends and you are back to food descriptions, sailing, marching, back story...  There is little development of Bran and Arya, both were fascinating possibilities but he just teased us with them.  And not an Other in sight  And the end?  Was the worst part. Made me angry. No more of my money  will I spend Mr Martin has lst his way. Good stories have a beginning a middle and an end.  He is just milking us now like Terry Brooks and Robert Jordan.
If you thought GRRM would redeem himself for the  A Feast for Crows snooze-fest, well, you were wrong. Rather than bringing the old GRRM to the game, he continued his decline in A Dance with Dragons.  Taking the characters that were not in AFfC and a few new ones, he puts them to the same wandering that bored you before. Please feel free to:  a.) not buy this book because it contributes almost nothing to the plot, or b.) feel cheated by another GRRM rip-off.  If you are addicted to uncomfortable sex scenes, diarrhea and/or menus . . . well, you won't be too disappointed.
Several years ago I read "A Game of thrones". I simply loved it. Martin created a world that was alive and more real than our own because, unlike most books of the genre, both the narrative and characterization were realistic even if the setting was a world where each season lasted several decades.  "A Dance with Dragons" in comparison, but also on its own, is a pretty bad book, a promise unfulfilled. In a thousand pages the characters of this book travel thousands of miles: they depart from nowhere and they arrive nowhere too. I don't want to spoil anything but one new character seemed to be created only because Martin is running out of characters to kill and he still has, apparently, two books to go.  He created a Red Shirt.  This was a great series but the last two books were a disaster worse, they were boring. It pains me a lot buy I only gave it one star because that is the lowest rating available.
We were sent 'Little Men' instead of Little Women...  Who knew it even existed?  I'll keep the book because it is 50+ years old and I love antique books, but it didn't help my high schooler who was in need of this book for a report!  We finally found it at the library after we realized ordering it again would take too long.  Oops!
I give up. I can't even finish reading this because it's just too painful to experience the disconnect from the previous books in the series. Nothing much seems to happen, characters argue and talk and eat and travel. When things do happen they don't really seem to make sense. Most chapters involving characters from the first three books just don't ring true in some way.  I'm not completely convinced that GRRM actually wrote the majority of this book. It simply doesn't build on what has come before. Old characters spin their wheels while unnecessary new characters pop into existence. The only explanation I can think of is that this book was constructed and edited with future seasons of the TV series in mind.  Dance With Dragons feels like it was ghost written by somebody who has no real emotional connection to the old characters. Classic TV plot devices like cliffhangers and reversed deaths are used with abandon. Shocking dramatic events often had a huge emotional impact in the earlier books. But here they just feel like manipulative plot devices for ending a TV episode.  It's really quite shocking just how bad this huge, meandering mess of a book is. It's hard for me to imagine anybody giving it a five star review. But, then again, I always underestimate the degree to which people become emotionally invested in works of fiction.  My advice is to avoid this book. In fact, don't even start the book series if you haven't already. Just enjoy the HBO TV series. The producers on HBO are likely to keep the plot moving along nicely. Also you are guaranteed to get one new season per year for as long as it runs. In contrast the book series has jumped the rails, hurtled down the ravine and crashed into a great steaming mass of debris.
I'm not going to talk about the work ethics of Mr. Martin, or about his weird business sense. Anyone who has been following the "Song of Ice and Fire" series have their own opinions on the matter.  I read the whole series several times and read "A Dance with Dragons" twice. This book is bad, I'm not even sure it's a book, it reads more like a script, and a bad script at that. The amount of text wasted on the description of food and clothes compared to actual character or plot development is embarrassing.  The Tyrion episodes and a few of Jon's and Theon's are the only ones actually worth reading, to a point where in the middle of the book every time I saw the next episode is a Daenerys one I shuddered and thought "oh please not this again...", really, it was that bad...  The plot is stuck, barely anything happens in the entire book, and of the few things that do happen- almost none make sense. When you consider the motives, personality and behavior of some characters so far, their choices, decisions and actions in this book are so unbelievable, you can really tell they were pulled out of the author's behind. It's simply bad writing and bed story telling. Oh, and the cliffhangers, OH THE CLIFFHANGERS; When something important or interesting finally happens, we are left with these silly, annoying, forced and artificial cliffhangers.  By the end of this book and this series, so many characters died, assume a false identity, turned out to be someone else, thought to be dead but without any confirmation, that I simply don't care anymore. Mr. Martin was so busy creating a universe rich with history and lore, characters and schemes (and food, LOTS of food), that it seems he had forgotten the story.  What comes to my mind when I think about this book, is watching a puppet show with beautifully made puppets and set, only the puppet-master forgot the play, and tries to make things up as he goes along while awkwardly moving the puppets around.  Don't buy this book, read the synopsis online, borrow it from some sucker like me who bought it or from the library, it's simply a bad, boring book, and a shameful addition to this otherwise great series.  *Please ignore any grammatical errors, English is not my native tongue.
What a long-winded, cumbersome, mostly plotless disappointment!  George Martin seems to have gotten stuck on the eastern continent with Dany and Tyrion and lost his way.  Hundreds of new exotic names, places, cultures, and histories we have to force our way through just to follow the storyline of the remaining characters that haven't been killed off yet.  Hizar, Hizdar, Huzhar? How can we start taking sides in the palace intrigues of cities we only just learned about?  Why do we care?  Stop generating new characters and finish up with the stories we're already following!  Theon Greyjoy was a somewhat minor troublemaker character in the previous books but the fact that I was relieved when I got to his chapters says a lot about how bored and impatient I was in the rest of them.  SPOILER ALERT! Jon's chapters can be summed up with: he moved the wildings south and put some to work on the wall.  And got in arguments with Stannis and his men about it until a weak cliffhanger at the end.  Even Tyrion seems two-dimensional here.  Everyone commenting here has most likely already read the previous four books and has a lot invested in the series.  And anyone commenting here just a few short days after the book's release was clearly as eager as I was to embrace this latest installment.  I expected to come out of this week short on sleep but rewarded for a long and patient wait.  Instead I'm tired, disappointed, and cranky.  As with every other fan, I really wanted to like Dance.  I did not.
What happened to the author who wrote the first 3 books? Heres a short and angry opinion.  The series is dead and the author has become lazy.  The first 150 pages of the book consist of people marching or sailing in one direction or another.  They think about turtles, food, and elephants.  One chapter consisted of a journey from the docks to an inn filled with descriptions of a city noone really cares about.  If you like that sort of thing, don't worry you will get chapter after chapter of pretty descriptions of stuff you don't care about.  The action is sparce and unfulfilling.  The story drags along and is a pain to read. The interesting aspecs of the series such as the undead streaming from the north, the return of the dragon queen, the training of Bran and Arya, go almost nowhere.  The only highpoint of the book is what happens to Theon Greyjoy. And thats about all.  I am done with GRRM.  He obviously does not care about releasing a quality product anymore.  Authors like GRRM should learn from others like Tad Williams, Terry Brooks, Hickman and Weiss.  They can tell compelling stories that actually come to a fulfilling climax.  While Robert Jordan and GRRM promise you the world and deliver dissapointment.
'A Dance With Dragons' drags along at a snail's pace, leaving you literally begging Martin for something interesting to happen.  When the few interesting parts do finally occur, you are already too beaten down by overly descriptive minutia to feel that the book has vindicated your hard earned reading time.  And seriously, wtf is up with all the food and wine references? I've had my "fill" of Dornish wine. More substance please!  I fear that the glory days of the 'A Song Of Ice And Fire' series and those wonderful first three books are long gone. It eerily reminds me of how the 'Star Wars' movies progressed: From entertaining and thrilling stories with characters you actually care about, to painfully tedious boredom.  Fool me once (AFFC), shame on you. Fool me twice (ADWD), shame on me.  I won't be pulled into buying another installment without being patient and reading the reviews first. Martin may not care about my time and what I feel is enjoyable, but I do.
I have been a big fan of this series for some time.  So, i snatched up this book 5 minutes after the bookstore opened on the release date and dove into it.  About 1/4 way through I found that I was having trouble keeping going.  The pace was so slow and nothing was happening.  But, I thought, good times are just around the corner...keep going  About 1/2 way through, a couple of things happened.  Now I was feeling better...here we go...  About 3/4 way through, it had slowed even more than the first half and i was literally falling asleep...  At the end, we get some cheesy cliffhangers and no resolution all these plots introduced in this book, not to mention the 300 open plots from the previous books.  If you completely skip this book and pick up the next one (When it comes out in 7 years), you won't miss a thing in the overall narrative.  This was a terrible effort.
Thoroughly disappointed in this chapter of ASOFAI, I can't believe it took almost ten years - 10 YEARS - for this bloated, empty, insult of a book, cash making machine production to be written. I didn't find one thing to redeem the whole: - It should be about 1/3 of its pages count if you took out the idiotic text filling (yeah minute description of food, fauna and the likes I'm talking about you!) - The major plots don't just slow down, they CRAWL to a stop - The addition of new characters feels all too convenient,and is not even rendered well - The psyche of some of the most interesting and best characterized major characters is turned basically on its head... Without a reason or semblance of sense. - The one well written part, Tyrion's, actually advances him.... nowhere! not even joking at this point.  Basically it feels like this: GRRM is paid by the word, and is literally producing as much as he wants. Imagine a text message where instead of paying by the letter you were the one being paid by the letter by the phone company... How long a message could you write? Well let's see without an end of course. Reading this book was like trying to find gold nuggets here and there in a heap of dung, and trust me the search was not very successful. At this rate and quality level ASOFAI will never be finished, and the way ADWD tu put it bluntly is a slap in the face after books 1-3 I'd prefer if GRRM didn't write another word of it.
If I could, I'd give it negative 5 stars. Definitely the worst book I've ever read. Couldn't continue at all after chapter 3. Why? The main characters are so pathetic and hatable.
When George started killing characters that I loved, I bit the bullet and plowed on, thinking that it would be all right in the end, that some of them would prevail and "win" if you will, but it seems as if he knows no other plot twist than to kill off many of the characters and then maybe bring them back with the "magic" we were told was not that prevalent in this world. Martin has "lost the plot", quite literally.  He has lost control of his characters and the narrative and knows no way to contritely wrap up a storyline. The story goes nowhere in book five and a character that I have been rooting for since book one may have been killed off, making all of his efforts wasted, if this is so, it is a disgrace, but even more so if he is brought back by some mystical rite. I have lost all faith in this series, add another one-star to the pile.
This book is not worth anyones time to read, absolutely nothing of interest happens.  Done with this series wholeheartedly, there are much more entertaining writers out there.
I love This series so much. George R.R. martin is just an amazing writer and I have a great deal of respect for his obvious passion for detail and creation of substantive charterers.  That said I was somewhat disappoint by A dance with dragons. After several years of waiting after having left off on several cliff hangers I was hoping that this volume would make the wait so worth it and I was so thrilled to get my copy.  Sadly that wasn't the case.  without giving away any spoilers, not that there were many to be honest. the book was a slow ambling drag that teased at upcoming moments of excitement and revelation but never actually got to any.  It may as well have been a travelogue since all the characters mainly did was tour the scenery and wait around a lot. It's sad cause the others in the series I would have to force myself to put the book down and go to bed. This one actually put me to sleep and I had to force myself to keep plodding through it to the end.  around page 500 I stopped expecting the story lines to progress and began to accept this book was not going anywhere. It was like someone took a movies b-roll and used it as filler to make a faux sequel to cash in on a franchise.  I'm so disappointed.  I don't know if Mr. Martin is just tired of the series and gave up or if he just isn't sure what to do next so he kept typing words until he reached the word count cut off point.  I honestly don't know if I have another 5 year wait in me so I think from now on I'll just watch the HBO show and leave off on the books.  Anyone know of any good series I can replace this one with? I'm open to suggestions.
I enjoy a good fantasy book, and most of the time I read nothing else. But it seemed to me, as talented Mr Feist is as a writer, as a fantasy writer, 'Shadow of a Dark Queen' sux. for instance, how can he use emotional endearments such as 'mommy' for mother? the term was not created until the nineteenth century. and there are lawyers in the story (of a time tv was not even created) that uses American law at a time when America was not even found!  furthermore, there is a specific mention of the zippo lighter in the story (huh?). But there is one point that i find quite unable to accept is when Prince Nicholas was called quite casually 'Nicky' in a formal conversation, and i take it as an insult to my knowledge to medieval culture. Think about it, how was can King Richard I become Ricky? Thomas Beckett become Tommy? It's so outrageous! In conclusion, the book is far too mushy to be of a time where emotions are for women and weak ppl.  There is nothing like a good fantasy book, most of all a fantasy book that is believable to its time. there is such a thing as researching before you write a book, and if this book shows how Mr Feist writes ALL his books, then he should write something about the present, even if there will be serpents in them.
Time Magazine needs to take back their statement that GRRM is the "American Tolkien."  Tolkien was never this tedious, not even in the Silmarillion (which sorely tested my patience).  Hell, I'd take a book of JRR's lengthy elvish ballads over this dreck any day of the week.  I lost patience with this series 2 books ago, but I felt revitalized after watching the superlative HBO series this spring.  I think that made things worse, actually, since Peter Dinklage was so amazing as Tyrion and in this book Tyrion is reduced to drivel.  Other reviewers have covered the many problems with this book already, so I won't rehash.  I will say that it is now clear to even the most devoted GRRM fans that he has gotten to full of himself to write a decent book anymore.  He believes his own press and as a result has become a pretentious wind-bag who needs a swift kick in the pants and a fascist editor who will slash his work to the bone.
This is the first Feist I've ever read, and the last I'll ever read.  The  only epic fantasy I've ever enjoyed has been Weis & Hickman, but I  thought, hey, this guy's popular enough; maybe there's something to him.  So, I read the whole thing, just so I'd be able to tell for sure that I  didn't like it. Well, SOMETIMES I've discovered good books that way--not in  this case, though.  I swear, this reads like something I would've written  in eighth grade.  Plot? Hackneyed.  Characters? Cliched and boring.  Action? Plodding.  I don't understand how people can enjoy this.  It's  really not worth your time to read.
This was such an exciting series, so much foreshadowing, hints of plots to come, intrigues to play out. The problem is that none of it ever happens. This author has no plan. He just writes very well but I don't think he even remember book one. Tolkien he's not. Too bad.
My mom talked about how much she loved this book and the movie....boy was she ever wrong. This was a bork g book with hardly any funny parts. I didn't even finish the book. No thanks.
The index is improperly linked, and navigation is abysmal. I've never had such problems with a Kindle product before. Although I adore Alcott's books, I'll get them in paper rather than try to deal with the hassle of this version.
He has lost his touch and I have lost my interest. I hope Brandon Sanderson finishes this series so fans have some hope of salvaging their wasted hours of reading.
This is a too much of a girly-girl book. It told you over and over YOU MUST ALWAYS ACT LIKE A GROW LADY.Jo ran in the story and Meg scolded her for it. Also,sometimes it did just dumb things-such as the Pickwick Club. Another thing was the last chapter felt rushed. DO NOT READ!
Let me say I think GRRM has a great sense of character and can do a plot twist like nobody's business.  That said, does he know how to wrap up ANY storyline without a death to the main character in that storyline?  We've invested hours and pages in characters and plotlines, only to have brand new characters introduced...AGAIN... and a character we are invested in killed off because GRRM doesn't know what else to do with them.  I was hoping to find Dance With Dragons have more focus and development on Jon, Arya, Bran and their wolves, Tyrion, Cersie, Jamie, and Dany and Sam.  Was I disappointed?  In the end - yes, big time.  (possible spoiler ahead)  I got a lot of back & forth with Dany and Meeren and almost no development of her relationship with the dragons or who else may ride them. I got bits of Arya's growth, but not much and only toward the end of the book. Bran - a few chapters of odd situations that seemed like filler and a way to put him aside. Jon got chapters about his dealings with Wildings and Stannis, but not the Others or Ghost. Cersie - chapters toward the end of the book ending in her being marginalized and set aside. Jamie - one chapter only! Sam - nothing Tyrion - Hurray!  Some interesting bits of intrigue but not what I was hoping for. New people - lots and lots and I didn't care about any of them at all.   I loved books 1 & 2 and they got me hooked on this series.  Book 3 was annoying at times, but I stuck with it.  Book 4 was a dissappointment because of the new characters, but I gave it a chance & held out hope for this book.  That said, I will not recomment this book or series to anyone and I doubt I'll read anything else in the series in the future.  GRRM is a good writer, too bad he cannot end a story.  Maybe a new editor would help, but I doubt it.
i chose to pay a little bit more to get a cover of the book that i liked and a version that was well kept.  the book i recieved was in very poor shape.  the cover had many wrinkles, rips and tears in it.  and it was not the cover that was advertised.  i am HIGHLY dissapointed in this purchase and will not use this seller ever again.
Mr. Martin is failing his readers big time! This series is turning into The Wheel Of Time by whats his name Jordan. This seems to be all about the money and his connections to the HBO series. I guess the readers are just considered idiots by the publishers. The last two books of this series are pathetic!
Everything that happens to each character can be summed up in a sentence or two. Nothing of real consequence happens. Editting is terrible. A long thought dead character is pulled in out of GRRM's bottom while characters we have invested in go nowhere. This book is a ripoff and copout by GRRM. No cliffhangers resolved, but more are added. No prophecies fulfilled, but more are added. I can't believe I was stupid enough to wait for nearly 6 years for this rubbish. It feels like he wrote most of it last month in a rush with no time for it to get properly editted.  I believe this will be the last book in this series. It is obvious GRRM cannot control his characters and plot anymore and I truly think he has grown to hate writing this series. He brands himself as an American Tolkein, but he's NOT EVEN CLOSE. He's more like a combo of Robert Jordan/Chris Carter/ JJ Abrams (read Wheel of Time/X-files/LOST). The only way we see the end of this is if HBO gets the rights to finish on screen and I hope it happens that was rather than letting GRRM mess it up more.
Why has this book been highly rated by national critics?  The answer is because George RR Martin continues to astound us with his world building. And that is what critics love. They want a book immersed in the minute details, they want to be able to imagine themselves in the book. They want to smell the smells, eat the food, and watch the sights. And this book delivers that in droves. Add a dash of oppressiveness and this book becomes an instant classic amongst the criticatti.  This is also precisely the reason I hate this book. There is too much detail, and this is not what I (as a fan) do not want to read. Is this a food guide or fantasy fiction? I would rather watch the Food Network than read about the excrutiating details of each meal. Is this a travelogue or fantasy fiction? I would rather buy Fromer's guide to Westeros than read about the boring nature of traveling from one place to the next where nothing (important) happens in between.  As a result, we get hundreds of pages of filler. It delights the critics but it bores the heck out of me. I don't care where whores go nor do I care to read about urinating into rivers.  Admittedly, the action picks up 75% into the book, and the last quarter of this book is actually readable. However, this means that 250 pages is actually fairly good and the remaining 700 pages could have been cut out without impacting the book.  The saddest part of this is that we will need to wait another five years for "Gorge" RR Martin to write the next installment of the foods that he dreams about.  As a huge fan of this series (hey, I have not only the board-game, but the expansion for it!), I'm sad to say that if this were book one, I would not have read book two.
Cut the fluff and get to the meat of the story.  So much disapointment after such a long wait.  If I want fluff I can read Mitchner.  I want more meat, to get this guess I'll have to go out to eat and read a steak menu.  Anyone know where I can get a good dragon steak?
Run, don't walk, as far away from this latest installment of the Song of Fire and Ice. Considering that Mr. Martin took 6 years to come up with this novel, you'd think that there would actually be something redeeming and interesting about it. However, what he has managed to deliver is essentially a 1000 page bad "Seinfeld" episode. Nothing happens. At all. Its a meandering book about people meandering around and having political discussions, complainig about the conditions of their current physical environment or endlessly describing their food.  The characters do not grow, no situations get resolved, and the "new" characters do little to advance the novel beyond adding pages and pages of exposition. I say "new" because one of them is simply a re-named character who wasn't interesting enough to be a full-blown POV character in the earlier books, and now we get a lot of material on why he has a new name and his own inner monologue about his new identity.  This reads less like "the other part of A Feast for Crows", and more like stuff salvaged from the cutting room floor that the editors pulled out of A Feast for Crows as being too boring and non-relevant. This is one of the very few books where it will be better to wait until HBO tackles the book to see if they can somehow distill 1000 pages of ennui into a couple coherent episodes.  Use whatever terms you like: "jumping the shark", "abandoning the fans", "phoning it in", "resting on his laurels", "contractually obligated to write a book, but not contractually obligated to put any effort or quality into the product". This is awful and huge disservice to his legions of fans who have made him a wealty man. Its like he and George Lucas made a bet on who could put out the worst material that their fans would actually pay for. Lucas was in the lead with The Phantom Menace and Attack of the Clones, but Martin is pulling neck and neck with A Dance With Dragons.  Save your money! Read something more worthwhile, like the phonebook.
It is chapters taken out of LIttle Women. You are wasting your money if you buy it. It does not state in product info that all they did was take a section of the original book and make it separate. Real ripoff
Had to give it a star due to there rating system. Wanted to be a minus but can't. If you did not know how to right the end of the book I wished that instead if the volumes of pages written I wish he just said on the second page . (then they all were run over by a bus). Would have been better reading then the dribble that was put upon the pages.( Poor Jon Et Tu Martin )
A lot of people waited a long time for this book.  When it finally arrived, and was as long as it was, I expected something to happen.  Very little did.  It drags, big time.  Now the wait for the next installment, which may never happen.
You have got to be kidding me... A 5+ year wait for that piece of crap. I have never been more let down. I will never buy another Gorge R.R. Martin book as long as i live.
I had thought a 1000+ page book would make up for those 5 long years of waiting. All it does is prove that "words are wind". We get to read about scrawny harts brought down by scouts named Benjicott Branch who then are never mentioned again. There are so many new bit players introduced that the book feels quite unrelated to the previous books. The chapters with the interesting characters are teasers - they lead nowhere in this book. I also felt like GRRM wrote this book with the HBO series in mind. There were too many convenient plot turns and chapter endings that would fit a tv show. This book has killed my obsession with the series which is a good thing since I don't see it ending.
This book contains a Monty Python and the Holy Grail reference on page 325 of the hardcover. That's about all you need to know about the "quality" of this entry into the series.  If you want just a bit more, know that an entire plotline contained in the book (4 chapters or so) could have been excised and reinserted at the end in a couple of paragraphs.  Marginally better than AFFC, but only because there's no Samwell Tarly. As hard as the characters try to get stuff accomplished, nothing really happens.
I don't mind books that are slow moving, but my patience is being tested with this series.  While ADWD at least fixes one of the major problems with AFfC since it does include the POVs of popular characters like Jon, Bran and Dany, each character faces more and more challenges and failures.  But it doesn't seem to be leading to anything. It's just going on and on with new secondary plots being introduced, but the overall plot of the series is no closer to any resolution.  Like a AFfC, there are still too many random characters with POV chapters that add nothing to the overall story other than filler.  I found myself skimming over some chapters because they simply weren't compelling and I had no interest in what was going on.  At the end of ADWD, I was left with a lack of hope for both the characters and the storyline.  It's now a series of disjointed storylines with the empty promise of a satisfying conclusion.  With only two books left, I have my doubts about how the series will wrap up. But I'm fully expecting GRRM to announce that ASoIaF will be a 10 book series now.
The title says it all.  I can't believe I waited so long for this book, then was utterly disappointed.  500 pages of nothing before the plot started to move forward, new POV characters with no major purpose, entire chapters of quasi-torture porn, new characters introduced out of nowhere that just make an already twisted plot even more twisted . . . and I don't mean twisted in a good way of, "Wow what a neat plot twist!" It's more of a, "He's going to drag this out as long as he can" plot twist.  First three books are still amazing.
Given the expectations created by A Storm of Swords and AFFC, this book doesn't deliver.  I could write a longer review, but I don't want to pull a Martin and take 10 years writing it.
GRRM can write, no doubt. Too bad he can't avoid the cliches and the overused cliffhangers. And the endless introduction of new and uninteresting characters. And unending descriptions of what people ate. And how much they piss. Please. This man needs an editor. In the guitar playing world one describes a person who displays great virtuoso playing but manages to say nothing of substance as a "wanker", and  their recordings get called "wankfests". This book is a wankfest. Heavy on the words. Light on the substance.  I won't be interested in reading anything else he has to write. He has been compared to Tolkein but that is silly. Tolkein's stories had a beginning, middle, and end. GRMM just keeps introducing more and more middle, resolving nothing, and no doubt laughing all the way to the bank.
Very long and boring never read this book you will regret it with all your life trust me and my friends we all read this and we all hate it!!!!&
First of all a disclaimer: I loved all the four previous instalments of Song of Ice and Fire, included A Feast for Crows. But with this new novel... I was bored, bored to death. Sometimes I surprised myself skimming over the text, without even actually caring to read. Worst of all is that half in the novel, I felt that I wasn't caring for what happened with the characters. Even Tyrion and Daenerys, my two favourite characters in the previous novels, looked cartoonish, stereotyped, soulless. The events on the Wall were as dull as reading a taxes manual. And to make it even worst, after 1,000 odd pages of boredom, the end of the novel made me feel cheated.  Sincerely, I doubt I will bother to read the next novel, much less buy it.
It's probably just me, but this book just shocks all my sensibilities.  And that's about all it does.  The books trades the story for lots and lots and lots and lots of yuck.  The language is appalling and each chapter is a spiral downward into more and more, well, let's just overuse the word, yuck.  Several times during the first few chapters I came to a complete stop and said aloud, "I've read this book before-nothing is happening!"  Just for fun I started seeing how many paragraphs I could go without reading something downright lewd.  The answer?  Not many.  When I picked it up to read the fourth chapter about Daenerys I made the decision to return the book.  I'm skipping this one and crossing my fingers that the next two will have more plot and less smut. Please, please, please edit so that we can actually read it!!!  James wife, Alissa
This book isn't any better than AFFC. Nothing interesting happens until the end and then we are left with a major cliffhanger. There are some twists but it seems to come out of nowhere, doesn't really have the intended impact. The series has been disappointing since the third book.
Please make it shorter and not to have so many confusing plots in it. But it was still a little bit good.
i am yet to finish the book but is kind of boring to me. I am still reading it because when i start something i always want to finish it that is why i am still reading it otherwise i would have abandon it.
Part I I have only just started reading Dance with Dragons, but the first three chapters have done nothing to suggest that the format will improve on that of the earlier volumes. Somewhere in there is a first rate story (or rather stories) but it is buried in a mass of unnecessary detail, background and description. I am already skip-reading to pick out the story amid irrelevant ramblings. I can expect tedious back-tracks on family history/mythology/geography, interminable step-by-step journeys by land and sea which get nowhere fast, allusive stream-of-consciousness detours, a myriad of names of incidental, unimportant characters, who merely illustrate the author's ability to invent and confuse('Zhak, Hazkar, Ghazeen, Merreq, Loraq, all the old slaving families' - will we see any of these again?). Of course rich detail makes a narrative realistic, but the editor seems to have nodded off (literally). I will probably battle through to the 'end', if only to see how the author avoids coming to any conclusions. The whole narrative so far could have been delivered in no more than two volumes, without loss of atmosphere. George Martin seems addicted to the theory that it is better to travel than arrive. Lord of the Rings it is not. Part II I have just finished skip-reading this volume. Oh dear, it got worse - pages and pages of irrelevant self-indulgence - it was relatively easy to pick out the main steps in the story, even though they were few and far between and the character-by-character chapters are irritating and confusing (as if Martin is saying, 'try to guess where this fits in, if anywhere?'. The geography is also hopeless. I was glued to the online map in the early volumes - this time I could not be bothered (although there is no intelligible map anyway). In general, characters live, die and are resurrected at a whim without any coherent thread to their stories, which are buried in verbiage. If there is a TV sequel to Game of Thrones, let's hope that the producer has licence to cut and simplify, otherwise no-one will have the patience to see it through to the end - if there is one. Overall I am angry at being cheated of a potentially great epic.
The weaknesses of this installment have been well documented by others.  Basically I think that George has just lost his passion for this series.  He considered this project a burden, and it just seems like he pulled an all-nighter to turn in a term paper hoping for a C-.  Unfortunately for his readership, this all-nighter was 11 years in the making for Jon, Tyrion, and Dany, and the grade he gets from me is an F.  Nothing works in this installment.  Everything is severely disjointed with many of the characters over 3000 miles apart with very little overlap.  Also now with 16 points of view, the plot completely stagnates.  There just not a compelling story for many of these characters, besides how much can you really do with just 40 or 50 pages devoted to Cersei, followed by 40-50 devoted to Bran, then 20 to Jaime, then 50 to Arya.  You get the idea.  The book gets bloated really quick when you have so many characters spread out over so many different locations.  The story is just suffocated, or maybe it's just not there anymore.  I'm leaning toward the latter.
Tyrion escapes across the sea, crosses an entire continent, discovers a long lost secret...and nothing happens.  Daenerys rules over Meereen, fends off eager suitors, discovers a deep-seated desire for sofa cushions...and nothing happens.  Jon commands the Nights Watch, defends the Seven Kingdoms from the cold, worries about groceries...and nothing happens.  Words ARE Wind and GRR Martin is full of it.
Printed In China.....Not quality books...  The books seems ok for a child.  Some of the facts do change in the shorter version of the classics in these Classic Starts series. There are too many to list. Hopefully, it won't confuse a child when they read the original book.  I wish Amazon would put in the description of the book that it is printed in China.  Then we can choose if we would like to buy that book or one made in USA or another country.  We won't be buying anymore of these Classic Starts series.
Couldn't get into this story. Finally gave up.
This book was okay but boring it has no action it also did not change from a little girls voice to a big girl or women voice
I expected to receive the same edition shown in the picture, but instead received a very low quality, older version. It was a gift and I was very unhappy about the bait and switch!
Little Women begins the 3-book saga of four sisters and mother. Their father is off at war and this tale tells of their growing up in the mid 19th century.  The girls and their "Marmee" are struggling financially, but find creative ways to amuse themselves. Each girl has her own virtues and flaws, making them quite believable. Their neighbor, Laurie, is a 15yo boy living with his benevolent grandfather and becomes very close friends with the girls. His follies both amuse and annoy the girls. This book is a classic and should be required reading for junior to early high school literature, because it teaches as well as entertains.  The story focuses mainly on Jo, the second eldest girl of 15 with a hot temper and a passion for writting.  Written over 150 years ago, (I believe), Ms. Alcott is obviously dead-on correct with the details of the time. Having read this book three times, which is something I rarely do, takes you on a journey to a period where children are raised with a strong sense of morals, yet still make the mistakes children will make.  This book is followed by the books "Little Men" and "Jo's Boys". Both of which you will want to sink your teeth into if you enjoy "Little Women". All are free on Kindle. They're perfect stories to curl up with on a snowy day. I believe girls and women will enjoy it more then boys, due to the lack of explosions, super-heros and race cars. (LOL).  Having been forced to read the terrible "Lord of the Flies" and the classic short story "The Lottery", I wish my school made this a required read as opposed to the aforementioned books. Boys WILL enjoy the antics of Laurence "Laurie", and though they won't admit it, they too will probably enjoy this book as well. They will definitely enjoy "Little Men" and "Jo's Boys" much more. I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did and I hope this review helps. Merry Christmas! @LorrieLife.
Sorry , but I truly could not abide the narrator.  Smarmy beyond tolerance.  It the March girls were 5 or 6 years old I could perhaps understand the way their voices were characterized but considering they are teenagers.....well, intolerable.  I really tried, but I could not listen for more than half an hour and then I was done.  Too bad they didn't find a better narrator.
The product I received in the mail did not look like what it does online (and mine had water damage!).  Maybe I missed something, but that came as a shock.  The customer assistant thought Amazon was very helpful, but I decided not to go to all the trouble of sending it back because I didn't think it worth it.
I ordered a couple of inexpensive audio books for a long car trip this summer.  What a mistake.  I didn't know that the voice would be a computer.  There was no emotion, no pauses for commas, and a lot of mispronouncing of words.  If I didn't already know the story, I would not have been able to follow it.  All the sentences were run together, and you couldn't tell who was speaking. I probably listened for about 15 minutes.  It was all I could stand.
This is a workbook of the odd numbered solutions, not the textbook. The mistake was on my part for not being more diligent, but didn't see "workbook" listed anywhere. The pdf version of the book (with answers) is available online if you just search, so save yourself the time and money.
Was not the book I intended it to be.
Not so great copy
If you have Little Women, you already have these chapters. The chapters of Good Wives have been tacked onto the end of Little Women, so there's no need to buy them separately.
Terrible book unlike the Precalculus Blitz book. Why would the author make it hard for students to understand and do the problems? We need logic skills and ease not to complicate problems so they ask the professor or other students for help on. A textbook needs to clarify so asking for help is minimized not to make us struggle.
I just could not get in to this and had it because it has certain items I needed to know.
i wold not buy this book if i  were you.    (dont buy this book)
This book only has the text and not the exercises!!! You need to purchase those separately using WebAssign and the description does not note this!!!! I am extremely disappointed since I unknowingly bought the wrong book and now cannot complete my homework. Make sure you know what you are buying!!!!
does not come with web assign code. should've bought at bookstore -.-
calculus is hard for me already and the book gives poor descriptions
To the seller, i did not order this product. Please help me. I see that my AMEX card was charged. I did not order this and i don't have a kindle. Please cancel my order and confirm ASAP!
This is a book that I'd heard about all of my life, so I figured I ought to finally read it.  Unfortunately, it is truly miserable.  I would have given up on it about halfway through, but our internet died for a few days so I wasn't able to download anything else from the library.  To be fair, the book was written for prepubescent girls, and I am (at the time of this writing) a 38-year-old man.  But I have to believe that even the target audience - in this generation at least - would find it a slog.  This book features the March family - primarily Mrs. March and her four daughters, Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy.  It describes the daily joys and travails of these mid-19th century New England women.  Unfortunately, nothing much happens to them.  Trivial events - such as a disastrous meal, or a picnic lunch are the subjects of full chapters.  The girls mostly sew, do their chores, play outside, eat, and sleep.  The book is  full of moral lessons, admonishing us all to be selfless, good, pure, and true.  Some of these morals are timeless, and good behavior is something we can all aspire to.  But the lessons are delivered with as much subtlety as a sledgehammer, in such a cloying way, and with so many superlatives as to make you want to stick a finger down your throat.  The book also has lessons that are not (thank God) timeless.  Three out of four of the little women who feature in this book have interesting talents:  Jo writes, Amy draws, and Beth plays music.  Each initially aspires to do something great with her talent, but these dreams are summarily squashed.  By the end of the book, and with the admonition that "talent isn't genius", Alcott has impressed upon her audience that such dreams are almost always fanciful.  The lesson seems to be:  harbor such dreams at a young age if you must - - but in the end, you'll be much happier if you get married, have kids, live puritanically, and take care of your husband.  I just can't get behind that.
I borrowed this eBook from my local library and read 60% of the novel before realizing it was not Louisa May Alcott's original, but a children's adaptation of the novel. This was not clear from the title of the book or the reviews provided by Amazon. Other customers' reviews referenced the fact that this eBook contains only "Part One" of Little Women, and not the second part of the novel, now considered its sequel, "Good Wives." However, it should be noted that the Little Women story in this eBook is incomplete and does not contain the original text of the novel. Do not purchase this eBook if you are looking for Little Women - find an official, authentic version instead.
It has only few chapters of if
I received a different version of the book. I was Calculus, 6th edition Early Transcendentals, Stewart
The book has an entire chapter missing from the book.
If you like math, you will not after this text book.  I can not fathom why a university would select it without resorting to conspiracy theories.  If you do not understand a topic, this text will provide virtually zero assistance in helping you.  In most cases, you will be better off not reading it at all. When the book attempts to walk you through step-by-step, they almost always omit crucial details, almost always make jumps in logic that defy it, and almost always result in me being more confused than ever.  I could not give this book a worse review.
I needed this book only for the homework problems and it did not have any of them.
I was expecting the book in the picture but what I received was a solid blue covered version. Would not go through this seller again.
I love "Little Women" by L.M. Alcott. It's a great book. Unfortunately whoever published this version left it full of spelling and punctuation mistakes! I can't believe it's sold like this. Didn't someone edit it??? Very dissatisfied and will be returing it.
Piece of s*** book. Examples but no real explanation as to the theory and WHY you do what you do.
Do not buy this book if you are a college student taking a Calculus class. This version of the book provides you with examples and key instruction, but does not include any practice exercises. HUGE WASTE OF MONEY!
A lot WORST than what I thought I deserved.. I could have bought better conditions with this price I paid. I hesitated between this over another option with a real good picture, which's only 70 cents higher.. Too bad that I picked this one due to tight budget. Don't go for it if you see any better deal with real pictures of products out there because I guarantee you will never regret to say no with this option!
Wrong description
This book was a bland romance book. I am twelve year old boy so don't get be wrong that i read love books. Theonly reason i had to read this book was because my mom made me read it for homeschooling. I would no recomend this book for boys. Girls may be wild about this book but i think the book was crappy. But i gave little men a very good read. You can read it if you type in little men. Go to second page and its the first book on the top. Please read it.
don't buy it. It's only half of the book
statement say the book was "very good" but it arrived "very dirty" and show signs of very bad water damage!!
I can't believe I bought a new book! It's dirty, and it has several pages were folded. The most important is it dose not have online access, so I have to buy it!
Explanations need more details to show how to arrive at the answer.
book sucks. i don't understand why my school has been using this book for over 10 years.
As a student, the hybrid is a complete waste of money. I bought this because I thought I'd have access to better explanations online and because I thought I'd be able to refer back to it for practice later on. My main problem with this book is that there are no end-of-section exercises, which I happen to need for my current course. However, I also won't be able to refer back to the book and practice later on, so this really just doesn't help me...  I had ordered the "Hybrid Edition (with Enhanced WebAssign with eBook Printed Access Card for Multi Term Math and Science)" and so the lack of exercises in the printed book would have been fine, but in order to access the e-book/exercises, your instructor(s) must have the course(s) set up in WebAssign - which, by the way, you have to pay for separately - that specifically require this version of the book. Your instructor's course(s) must also be at the same institution.  In my case, the "Printed Access Card for Multi Term ..." only worked for one semester (first instructor's course was listed under a different institution since she taught the same course there), I don't have access to the exercises which I need to complete my homework (current instructor does not use WebAssign), and I won't be able to use this in the future for practice. Buying this was a real waste of money.
does not come with online acess
Please note that I am rating this particular edition of the novel. The book itself is surprisingly wonderful and easily deserves five stars. This particular edition, however, is flawed. My copy had forty pages missing and replaced with a portion that was already printed in the prior chapters. This was very frustrating, and things were only salvaged when I discovered the power of Google Books. To ensure that your reading pleasure is not disrupted, please consider getting another edition of this fantastic book!
This textbook is only chapters 1-6, which is not clearly indicated and was a waste of money to rent.
This book doesn't include any exercises! Only lessons! Useless for a class because it doesn't come with the WebAssign code to gain access to the exercises.
This book, Little Women by Louisa May Alcott was boring. I did not enjoy her style of writing at all. Another factor that lead to me not liking this book is that it was from the 1800's. Young teens like me are not into these types of boring "1800's" books. This book was a torture to read. You might ask, "what was going through your mind as you were reading this book?" Well, to all of those people out there, my answer is "boring!" Louisa explained everything that was going on... only a little bit too much. I would recommend this book to anyone who has a mature mind and enjoys reading classic style books.
LITTLE WOMEN BY LOUSY LOUISA MAY ALCOTT( I THINK THAT'S HER NAME ) IS THE UTMOST WORST BOOK YOU WILL EVER READ IN YOUR ENTIRE LIFE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! IM GOING TO CALL lOUISA lOUSY... BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT DESCRIBES THIS BOOK. lOUSY WRITES A LOUSY 1800'S BOOK THAT IS SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO BORING!! THIS BOOK IS VERY INFORMATIVE AND IS NOOO FUN TO READ!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I purchased a copy of this book strictly based on the graphics of the cover.  I was truly disappointed when I received the book of LITTLE WOMEN with an entirely different graphic for a cover, no way resembling the cover shown.
The explanations make it incredibly difficult to learn something simple and some of the questions in the book are not pretended earlier in the text. I'm hugely disappointed with this book having already very successfully taken Calculus.
Despite the Jessie Wilcox Smith illustrations on the front and back covers, I was very disappointed to discover that the artist's color plates that so perfectly capture the characters and events in this American literary classic, were omitted from this edition. Intending to give it as a gift, I ordered this book  because I was under the impression that it had the famous Jessie Wilcox Smith pictures.  What a disappointment!
Please don't misunderstand me...I am NOT disparaging the original story of Little Women. The one star rating is for this particular edition of the book. I have loved this book all my life and having worn out my childhood copy, was hoping to get a new one.  An UNABRIDGED copy!!  This is not the original...words and whole phrases have been changed and added to this copy!  If you, like I was, are looking for an original, untouched, UNABRIDGED copy of Little Women then bypass this edition!!  I cannot even begin to tell you how disappointed I was!!  I will be returning this copy and continue my search for a REAL copy of Little Women that hasn't had words changed, modernized, or "dumbed down"!!
Stewart made sure that this book is fat and expensive so that he can make his money. He hardly concentrated on the quality of the book. He is all over on this book, jumping from concept to concept rather than explaining and giving solid example.  The book is big and wordy. No effective pedagogy skill. This cannot be used even as a reference book, this is so bad. It is nearly impossible to  understand the author's intention. He presume you know everything. Book is more focused around QUANTITY THAN QUALITY. Just another useless rubbish from Cengage.
Throwing my name in the hat: If you're thinking, "Oh hey, this Hybrid version is cheaper...", STOP RIGHT THERE.  DO NOT BUY THIS.  Content is exactly the same except it excludes the end-of-section problems which my professors assigned.  To save money, I wound up checking out my school library's version of the original text and copying down the problems I needed, for three quarters of calculus!  You do not get WebAssign!
Louisa May Alcott, Little Women (Signet, 1880)  I figured attempting to struggle through this for five months (actually, five months and one week) was more than enough torture, and so I gave up about a quarter through the book (I ended on page 124 of 455). I can understand the many accolades the book has gotten from various writers (the afterward of the one I was reading, for example, was penned by Susan Straight) about the depiction of women, especially young women, as groundbreaking for its time. All well and good, but I couldn't get past the aggressive bucolic nature of the thing, which makes the Beany Malone novels seem as if they were written by Huysmans or Lautreamont (or Sartre or any other nihilist/existentialist you'd care to name). I have often wondered if there were a particular novel Melville were parodying in the hilarious opening pages of Pierre; it is obviously not Little Women, published some twenty-eight years after Pierre, but I can see where Melville was coming from anyway. (This was actually an accepted literary style of the time? How depressing.)  You may ask what in the world I'm going on about (though I assume if you're a fan of the book you have an idea of what the word "bucolic" means without me having to explain it to you). It's this--no one in this book ever thinks a truly bad thought. No one could ever even consider doing a bad deed. These characters are squeaky clean. Have you ever, in your entire life, encountered a household with four female children (especially four female children being raised by two females, since dad's off to war) where there was no bickering? Ever? Where every small, unintentional slight was worked out by calm, rational debate? No. Of course not. Why? Because that household does not exist. It did not exist in 1880, and it does not exist in 2009. There are obviously those who can relegate that to the backs of their minds; I found it impossible. Thus, one more book fed to the dustbunnies in 2009. (zero)
Calculus textbook
The description with this text stated that the online code was included.  This was not so.  When the book arrived, it was in excellent condition, but the online code to the exercises/problems was not included.  I purchased this because the code was to be included
The book is too old, only 35% new  After I returned, I got rejected since binding damaged.  But at the first I received the book, the binding was not tight enough when I turned the pages, it was almost going to be broken.
They sent me a copy of Little Women, but a COMPLETLEY DIFFERENT EDITION from what I ordered. Now I have to go through the hassle of returning it. They said that that was the edition they had on hand, so they sent it out!!  They thought I wouldn't notice. I ordered a pocket edition and they sent me a large book, and a large print one at that!!!  I would give them NO stars if I could!
horrible
This story is so incredibly melodramatic it's not even funny. Jo is such an unlikeable character. She's arrogant, fickle, and a complete drama queen. I was frustrated the whole time I read this book. I was hoping that there would at least be a good ending to this story, but the ending was the worst part of it. So Disappointing.
The problem sets are not same as in the normal edition. Not helpful for the class I needed it for. Waste of money. Don't buy if you're buying it for a class.
Total crap. Very poor explanations. Well, not TOTAL crap: The homework problems can be interesting.
When you order the hybrid edition, keep in mind that this edition doesn't have problems in it. They don't make this very clear when ordering. Since the sole reason for me to order the textbook was to do homework, I felt a bit irritated.
With no manufacturing overhead, digital versions should always be offered at a reduced price.
Does not work on IPad, android, or windows 8
After reading Pride and Prejudice and Jane Eyre, both written in the 1800s and which I loved, I thought I'd try another classic, Little Women. What a disappointment. I couldn't even read the whole thing. I only read the first 176 pages out of 470, so if the last half is better than the first half, I wouldn't know. Thank you to other reviewers for giving me the major plot points. I skimmed a few of those and that was enough for me. I didn't want to spend any more of my time reading what I felt was a boring book. I liked three characters, Jo, Laurie and Beth, but again not enough to want to read the rest of the book. It was too syrupy sweet with the mother teaching her girls values such as helping those less fortunate than yourself, control your temper, work hard, be polite etc. These are nice values, and this might be more desirable for a parent to read to young daughters.  Although be aware that there are a couple of deaths of main characters. For me, this book was not good enough. I want entertainment, creativity, surprise, unexpected events and interesting characters. I prefer books like Twilight and Harry Potter for young adults and myself.  Data: There is no sexual content which makes it appropriate for children. Setting: 1860s the North during the civil war. Genre: young adult fiction.
Get Louis Leithold's instead of this. Morris Kline's better than this.
This version of Little Women is only half the book, the cover says complete and unabridged but that is not true. It is not complete; it is only Part 1, which is very disappointing when you're expecting the whole book. I have nothing against the story, that is not why I rated this product low, I just thought people should know its not all of the story and have to be disappointed.
horrible book to try to follow to learn calculus, my school forces the students to get it for calc 1-3 but it really just confuses most of the students... i  have to step in and help since i take calc for a refresher and needed for my major... professors also take worksheets from other books as well... the written sections to teach each topic are way to confusing to follow needs to simplify formulas and not make it so complicated, we all are not mathmaticians, also i used to tutor calculus and i have always received a B or higher in the class i understand it well and the book makes no sense
DO NOT GET AN OLDER EDITION. MINE IS MISSING CHAPTER 11, which is essential for series at the end of CALC 2. I REPEAT. DO NOT GET AN OLDER EDITION.
The layout of the chapters is confusing and follows no sensible order. It provides exactly the same content as every other version before it, except with the chapter layout shuffled around. I think it's just a scam to make college students pay for brand new, useless books instead of allowing them to rent an actually good book written 50 years ago.
I bought this book as a gift to impress the receiver.  To my shock, the receiver told me the book was very nice indeed but it contained only the first half of the book.  I did not see anywhere where we are told about this being only half of the book unless you include the Library Journal description.
First, this is only the first half of "Little Women." Yes, this is the book originally published under that title, but usually it is bundled with the sequel, "Good Wives." This volume only covers the period up to Meg's wedding.  Second, this adaptation has taken all the color out of the work. The descriptions of the girls and their friends are missing, as are descriptions of their clothes, home, etc. Alcott herself wrote (ch. 1), "...young readers like to know 'how people look.'" I question the decision to leave out the descriptive passages as they are some of the most interesting writing, especially to younger readers.
Not very good. The hybrid edition doesn't have any of the math problems in it which basically makes the book useless. Don't buy unless you're planning on paying an extra $100 to get the math problems online.
Despite having entered the book in by ISBN number, it was not the book I needed for class. Nothing was wrong with the book; I just couldn't use it...
The words are so crowded. So I won't suggest this one.
The book I got is so filthy and beaten up. Totally disappointed.
This book is HORRIBLE.  It does not explain anything.  Why do schools use it, I don't know.  The exercises have nothing to do with the explanation.  Author skips everything.  I would sue this author if I could for charging an outrageous price for this crappy textbook.
Maybe to the older person "Little Women" is an interesting book, but let's face it, the new genereation is just not interested in this kind of book. When I was in grade school, I had to read it for a project, and I hated it. The reason was probably beause it was not flashy or out of the ordinary. It just told the average story about the average family at that time. it may be interestign for some, but the young readers of today just don't like it all that much.
I returned this item due to medical reasons and could not use it. unfortunately, they have not responded to my inquiries yet or refunded it.
Sure the story is great (as it would be with any version) and this version does have the nice print and book mark, however, the advertising suggested to me, at least, that there would be several illustrations.  There were none except silly chests with each little woman's name engraved on them at the start of each chapter.  Do not select this book if you are looking for an *illustrated* version.  The Illustrated Junior Library version is well illustrated and at least as high quality a printing.  By the way, read the sales copy above to see how misleading it is.  Just for that reason, consumers should eschew this version, and Amazon should have them change it.
Wrong edition...
Being a hybrid edition, there are no practice problems, while chapter 12 to 17 itself is missing. There was also no webassign codes included. It is a scam, be careful.
Was very disappointed when the book arrived and the cover was filthy front and back.  I was able to clean it with Clorox wipes but it should never have been sent out in that condition.
This book is only for math genius. The book is not clear at all; it skips a lot of steps. I have to buy this book for my calculus class, but I never read it.
I was so, so looking forward to reading "Little Women" to my daughter, so she could be caught up in it as I was at an early age.  I particularly chose the "Whole Story" edition because of its broad margins, easy-to-scan pages, and charming illustrations and margin notes that add historical texture to the story.  Imagine my shock to discover that at the end of THIS edition, Jo has not written a book, Amy has not gone off to Europe, Professor Baer has not made an appearance of any kind and....you'll never believe this....Beth is still carrying on a conversation (I'm trying not to spoil the plot of the real thing here).  That's because, apparently, "Little Women" was initially published in two parts ("Little Women" and "Good Wives"), which are generally published as the same book.  Whole Story has chosen to stop at the half-way point, so much of the story you remember, loved, cried, and laughed over is just not here.  Imagine getting only the first half of Tom Sawyer...leave him stranded on the island forever!  I feel completely conned.  It's a five-star story - make that maybe even a seven-star story - but it's a one-star edition.
This book can't be given low enough ratings. It deserves an negative imaginary aleph sub null stars. As everyone else has said, the examples are worthless. I've never understood how how people expect the next generation of learners of anything expect to do well with this sort of mystery religion inscrutable kung fu type teaching.
sucks for self study
Thought the story was stupid. The plot was almost nonexistent .  I figure out the murderer and could see the story outline from "the get go."  Boring...read just because I had paid for it.
Considering the book is titled "...with Enhanced WebAssign with eBook Printed Access Card", one would think that the book comes with WebAssign, but that is not the case.
You probably have no choice but to buy this book if you are taking college level calculus because it's likely required.  However, this book is insanely bad.  The book focuses too much on proofs and theory, leaving the student clueless as to how to do most of the problems in the book.  Students I know ended up using Khan Academy, Wolfram Alpha and Youtube to get help when the professor wasn't available.  Since this book is required for most college level calculus courses, the publisher/author has a moat around the business which prevents this book from being innovated into something useful.  If you have a choice, don't bother with this book and just find another venue to learn this material.  I see reviews that say this book gets 4 and 5 stars; must be people working for the publisher.  It's entirely possible that other academic books are even worse, but it's hard to imagine.  The book deserves no stars.
I had a good teacher, but the book felt like it didn't actually explain anything. I wound up dropping the class, though that was not 100% the book because a recent engagement and promotion at work kept me busier than normal. Still, the book is not a great help, though it is a great cost!
This book was NOT hard covered and there are questions in this knock off book that are different than the actual book! Do not buy this book! If I could give this a zero star I would
The worst read ever.
I really don't like this book. I will never use it again. I feel suffer when I studying this textbook.
Why give your child an adaptation of a classic?  The original book IS a classic because it's that good, but it's not intended to be an easy reader. There are lots of references to Dickens, 19th century schools of thought and people and places of the times.  You can read the real book young-- I read it in 6th grade, and it's still one of my faves. But your child will not get it until they are much older, not matter how gifted they are!!!!!!!!!!!!  An adaptation is not the answer. It's like feeding your child a pint of spaghetti sauce that has been drowned in a quart of water--the original is there, but the flavor is gone. And so it the nutrition!!!  There are plenty of books your child will enjoy and RELATE to. Wait to read the real thing. Or if you really insist on exposing them to the story before they can read it, let them see one of the film versions first--they were all pretty good.
This book is so corny I can barely stand it. It tells the story of four obnoxious, annoying sisters and their silly mother. The story is so corny I can't bear it. How can people call this piece of trash a classic? The cheesiness and pure sugary-sweetness of the whole thing is awful. STAY AWAY!!
I got cheated !! the book they sent was not even the book that i was asking for that's in the picture. its the same materiel but like a replica book that was either made in china/India or someones home printer. Hard cover my ass, it was some 3rd world country paper cover that started peeling 3 days after owning it. One of the pages wasn't cut out right by the person who plagiarized it so the bottom corner of a page stuck out because it was bigger then the other pages. Some B.S Amazon.... I was a loyal costumer with you guys but after this... you guys really feel of.
For 50 cents more you can get what this book has plus 6 more chapters that will get you through Calc III, ISBN 9780538497879.  The covers of each book look identical.  I thought I was buying the 3 semester text which makes the $200 price pretty decent, but now I find my text won't even get me through Calc II.  The companion textbook I had to buy duplicates chapters 10 and 11 from this text, so I don't even get the full benefit of a lighter textbook.  If you like throwing away money, buy this book!
gave me a stupid canada version .... not detailed about the text book gave me a stupid canada version  sigh
Idiotic way of presenting calculus. Chapter 2 studies continuity of functions, but limits of sequences (which is a more basic notion) appear only at the very end of the book, in chapter 8. And somewhere in between, in Chapter 5, we define integrals as limits of some sequences, pretty complicated for students. Genius!
The book arrived as a bunch of mixed up hole punched sheets in a broken binder. It's not even a text book, just a bunch of loose pages. Definitely not what I expected and paid for.
i got the book. it was so dirty. i choose the book from Prime even its price is higher than other. i thought the Prime will have better value and  the book will look good. when i got the book it cover was  back instead of white as picture. they should not sale the book like that or the price have to be so much lover than 75$.  this is the first time i have problem with Prime. They was very good before
This book is absolutely horrible! I have had to use other calculus books before and I thought they sucked at explaining the concepts until I had to use this book. If your teacher hates you enough to make you use this book, pay attention in class because to learn from this book is next to impossible.
This book seems to part of the great calculus conspiracy where every year millions of otherwise intelligent and well meaning students sign up for what they feel will be just a 'difficult' but rewarding math class.  Something to overcome on the way to engineering or science related fields.  Totally do-able!  However, calculus on the college level is like a crazy cullling process where you are usually given the weirdest and most bizarre faculty of the department, who then shout at you or otherwise frighten you as you are trying to learn what has to be one of the most difficult concepts in mathematics.  On top of all of this trauma, there is this book.  I will say that the homework problems are very good and the homework answer guide book is even better.  But the chapters are like the faintest heiroglyphics on delicate papyrus, written 2 thousand years ago.  Hard to decipher and with very few words to go on.  Concepts are not explained, problems are worked out without any explanation of how or where the obscure trig functions came from.  Important concepts are hidden away and then used in depth when you have no idea where it came from.  I am not a stupid person and have an advanced degree in the sciences, I can work hard!  But this book is just plain misery and seems grossly unfair to students who really want to learn and succeed in the material.  Why is calculus taught this way?  in itself, it is not difficult material but combined with a (typically) horrible instructor and this book - it is a nightmare.  I ended up having to use you tube videos of high school teachers (who are nice!) to understand the concepts in order to eventually receive a D in the class.  Great.
I was actually sent the wrong edition of the book. I got sent an international metric edition which is problematic because quite a few problems alter from the edition we use in class. This creates a hassle for me since I need to cross reference all of my homework problems with a classmate who has the correct edition before starting my problem sets.
There are no excercises in the book. You need to login to a website using a student key or a passcode a teacher gives you. Only buy this if you teacher has indicated you need the website bound book. Reading the reviews, a lot of people have made the same mistake i did and thought the hardcover and this one are the same. THEY ARE NOT.
The online code was expired so I couldn't get into the online program which is the reason why I bought the book. Disappointed
I am using this book for a Calculus 2 class. It has been absolutely horrible to try to follow. I have been using my 8 year old Larson calculus book to learn the material for the class, because the material is much easier to follow, makes more sense, and is easier to learn.  Good job to Amazon for sending a used book in great condition, but the book itself is very poor!
The text sent was the multivariable calclabs with maple companion to the text.  Not the text itself as the picture indicates.
Its calculus. The product itself was fine and in great condition but....its calculus. Its not ever going to be something I love.
It is a book that comes with NO WEB ASSIGN! It has only a few practice problems and it is only full chapter reviews NOT section review questions.
To put it simply, I've had a high school Calculus student explain the concepts in this book better. It's useless at best.
This book is truly awful. Stewart gives poor and incomplete explanations. He also skips numerous algebraic steps in his examples. If you want to teach yourself calculus, then this is not the book for you. If you have a subpar math teacher (as most math teachers are), then this book makes your calculus class that much harder. I'm currently in Calculus II and still using this POS book. I had excellent books for college algebra and precalculus that were so comprehensive that no teacher was needed. This book is definitely not in that category.
Author uses words rather than numbers to explain the math operations in each unit. If you are counting on this text to learn anything you should just drop the class. The solutions manual is even worse than the book.
Purchased this book through Amazon for son's calculus class as required text. The book had an oval sticker on back printed with "Quality Used Books" and a very professional looking white binding along top front edge of cover. Our son discovered the book was missing problems when the professor assigned work.  The end result was the book contributed to a capable student getting behind. After the school term we tried to trade the book end, price quoted was $126.  Amazon rejected it & returned the book to us. I started peeling off the sticker on back then on the front and lo and behold it was an instructor edition not intended for resale with these printed items on the covers front and back intentionally covered up! We were sold the book DISHONESTLY as a textbook from Amazon who we have always trusted. EXTREMELY DISAPPOINTING!!!
The absolute worst calculus book of all time... It gives the easiest problems as examples and then nails you with problems that are a million times harder, and not to mention the even problems are even harder so the solution manual doesn't even help, which also skips multiple steps... almost a pointless book that seems to be money hungry... do not buy at all costs!!!!!!!!!!
Yikes...  Well, in addition to Stewart I have a copy of Flanders text from the mid 80's, Calculus Revised Edition from '51, Calculus Made Easy, Banners text, and have also been through most of the copies available at the local college library. Without a doubt Stewart's book falls into a category all his own...  The Bads:  Proofs skip steps (which is a bad idea for an introductory text), the new edition is EXACTLY the same as the previous except they took out the section on hyperbolic functions; less is more?!? The mistakes in the homework section from the previous edition are still in the new edition, just in a different order. If this is your first introduction to what should be a wonderful topic I suggest you get a supplementary text. If you are an experienced math geek I suggest you get a supplementary text.  The Goods:  If your math friends read it they will assume you must be super smart. Better read than, "Going Rogue". Will no longer be the worst calculus publication in existence after next edition comes out. You get to 'make it rain' for James Stewart.
This book was worthless it did not have any problems in it. There was very little use to a book with simply some poorly explained calculus concepts.
This is the worst math book ever written. The things they try to teach you are not explained well at all and it is unorganized. Make sure you pay attention in call and take great notes because you will NOT learn anything from this book.
I haven't read this book & probably should.  I started to in grade school and got bored after 2 pages.  Anyway, I watched the movie recently and was very confused.  It was a pretty good story and apparently  autobiographical, but can someone who is hip on this story answer some  questions.  e-mail me at msbeckaru@aol.com 1) Who is Marmee?  The  sisters are Meg, Jo, Beth, & Amy as best as I could tell.  Does the mom  have a name? 2) Is Teddy the same person as Laurie cuz I'm really confused  on that. 3) What are Meg's babies names?  They didn't say in the movie. 4)  Who's the old lady who leaves Jo the poodle and the house?  Is she a  relative? Thanks.
I learn and study through following and understanding steps.  But how should I do that if there are no steps in this crappy book? This book has explanations, but they are really superficial. It is like if the author explains you how to spell a term, but without even mentioning what the definition is. I can't believe I paid so much for such a bad book which is destroying not only my grade but also my interest in math itself.
BEWARE BEFORE BUYING...  NO PRACTICE PROBLEMS  Despite it being bloody expensive and not clearly different, this very does not have the exercises.  You have to pay to go to a website for the exercises.  It says here that there you get access, but i cannot find any code or similar in my book to get me access.  I regret paying $xxx for this, then $xx more to ship it to NZ.  It is not clearly differentiated from the real book and almost as expensive.
I did a search for the book using the ISBN and it linked what appeared to soft cover version of the book I need. Since it was cheaper I ordered it, but little did I know the books are not the same. This version does not have the problems in the book. I now have to borrow someones book to do my homework that is due in 2 days. Amazon.com really screwed up by linking the two books.
This is the wron product. So bummed sitting here with 2 of the same textbook and no solutions! Don't let this happen to you.
This is not the solution manual amazon just makes it seem like this is the solution manual when it is actually the textbook. Don`t believe me check the ISBN for the product details and the isbn in the name of the product. I ordered the textbook for like 10 bucks and what I thought was the solution manual for 60 bucks. I ended up with two textbooks :(. Just a clever way to con people out of their money.
I tried reading this book first when I was five, with my mom, then when I was twelve. It was horrible each time. I remember distictly suffering through it up to the part where Meg makes jam, then deciding it wasn't  worth my time. My mom hated it each time she read it too. The movie,  however, with Winona Ryder and Susan Sarandon, is very good. If you want to  know the story and not suffer, see the movie, which is quite good.
The picture is not the same as the actual cover on the book you recieve. I highly regret coming to this buyer but it is too late because my class has already started and I cannot wait for another book to ship.
Hello. This item was advertised to include the WebAssign access card as well as the book. When I recieved my book today it didn't have the access card. If what you are selling doesn't include everything that is advertised it needs to be stated as such. Thank you for your time
Hybrid version sucks because there are no homework problems and the pages are not in sync with everyone else's. Wish I would have paid more attention to detail.
If you need to use WebAssign, then I suggest buying the book and access code from your university bookstore.  The product shipped did not include the access code that I need to continue using WebAssign, so I am currently returning the book and will be buying somewhere else soon.  Again, the product described is NOT what is sold.
When I saw the price of this book, it seemed too good to be true--- it was. This is only half of the book. Great if you're only taking the first half but USELESS if you plan to take the whole class or the second half.  KNOW WHAT YOU ARE BUYING.
I've never been great at math but I was at least able to understand most things with the help of a textbook. Got an A+ in Pre-Cal thanks mostly to a great textbook, but I'll be lucky if I get a C using this textbook for Calculus. The information is presented in such a way that you're expected to be a master of every previous mathematics subject in order to understand what's happening in this book. Math majors might find this book useful, but as I'm not a math major I get lost easily. The explanations are not thorough, and the example problems are not very helpful in answering the questions at the end of each section. Unfortunately I also got stuck with a terrible professor who required us to use this book. My advice is look for a better calculus textbook, this one is a huge waste of money.
This textbook was a misrepresentation. It contained only the first 6 chapters of the full textbook which was not made evident in the order. Worse, every attempt I have made to contact Amazon has been unsuccesful. It has been too difficult to establish any sort of dialogue about this problem. I feel that I have been stiffed for the cost of this book which has been of zero use to me.
This textbook was required for my College Calc class. Terrible book, does not explain anything well. I honestly don't know why my college keeps using this book, maybe because of the price tag and some deal they might have who knows. But If you have this book as a requirement to your class, I advise you to buy supplements or other textbooks to help you through the semester. If you need help I recommend Leithold's 7 Edition Calculus. All the practice problems not just the odd are solved, yes solved, not just the answer as in this book.
This is not the correct book. It does not have what you need to take the class. The description for this product is very unclear.
I ordered this textbook because it promised that I would be able to view the homweork and e-book online, and have the print version with all of the examples.  Howevver, my professor had not created a class key on the web-assign software, and I was unable to view the half of the book that was online!  I will be returning this book in exchange for the full text.  Just make sure that your teacher is using the web-assign software before you get this version!
Product is advertised as new 'with enhanced web assign with eBook printed access card' but Amazon is selling through third parties. The book I received was used without the web access code which is needed for my class. A new web access code costs $100. Amazon needs to do a better job of ensuring that their third parties are selling what they are advertising. I can buy this book brand new with web access at the campus bookstore for $25 more than I paid through Amazon for a used book without the web access code.  Trying to return this book now.  Sorry that this isn't a review of the book itself but I wanted to warn others who are thinking about buying this book that they may not be getting what is being described here. This is my first bad experience buying from Amazon in over 25 purchases.  I will be leery about buying textbooks through Amazon going forward.
The explanations are very limited and with very few examples. The layout is horrible, from a design stand, makes it hard to follow. I cant believe there is no solutions manual.
This is not the full book. It's wrong. Not right. Not right at all. tsk tsk tsk tsk tsk tsk.
This book just couldn't be any WORSE. I did in fact get an A+ on both Calc 1 and 2 (the two classes that I used this book for), however I owe everything I learned to my professors. You start reading this book and you'll just get confused right away. If you need it for your class like I did just borrow it from a friend and purchase the mandatory webassign code. Cengage deserves to go out of business for this book seriously
Sent me instructors edition instead of students edition. However, the product did arrive quickly. I just wished it was the right one. Will be returning product soon.
The Enhanced Webassign with eBook Printed Card is not included unless your professor has it available to you.  Book was returned to seller.  This seller has denied a request for refund?  BEWARE!  Book has no assignments in it.  You must be given access, which is not included with book.
This book is horrible, really no other explanation is needed. Just use khan academy and pauls online calculus notes instead.
Badly written, expensive, boring problems, poor motivation of material. Avoid. There are many better books out there. R.Shankar's Basic Training in Mathematics is great, Spivak's Calculus for the analysis stuff and if you're american then Kline's Calculus is an excellent choice.
The only reason why I purchased this book was because it seemed like it was necessary for class, sadly I found out it was optional. For those of you who expect to be coddled like in all pre-calculus series mathematical textbooks, prepare for a cold shower with this one! Do yourself a favor if you want to save money and learn calculus like most non mathematical people, get a simpler to understand book with a lot of examples AND PROBLEMS!
This book does not provide full answers to odd-numbered questions like it should. The author seems to expect that every student will get every question right. In addition, Stewart does not thoroughly explain anything. Most math teachers do not know how to teach and this is definitely not the book for them to choose. It'll only result in poor performance in the class.
As many others have said, this is probably the WRONG BOOK for your course. This book has NO exercises in it! At the end of each chapter, it will tell you to go online to look to view the exercises, but you can't even access this without a class/institution key that your instructor/school has. So, if your instructor doesn't use this online crap, you are out of luck. I spent a lot of time on their site trying to figure out what I could do because their site sucks and is not very informative. In the end, it was all a waste of time.  As of now, this book is priced at $138.02 (new), while the book that does have all the exercises is priced at $112.49 (new). In other words, this book is absolutely useless and was an unreasonably big hassle because now I have to worry about catching up in the course and getting a full refund because I opened the stupid key. The product description does not mention any of this, which makes me even more mad. I wish I had read the reviews before I bought this.
A couple of students purchased this text for my calculus course-  This text does not contain any exercises; you must have college or university access to WebAssign before you can use it!  This is not at all clear from the description, so be sure you're purchasing the right book if you want this "hybrid" version.
I saw on Amazon that they had a paper back version of the book I needed, so I got it for a way cheaper price, but it is not the paperback version. It it the HYBRID version, without problems in it. The web assign access code will not work for anyone that is not enrolled into the specific class that uses the HYBRID version.
It is showed by the website that just the cover is different between the hardcover and papaerwork , but the substance in the book is also different with the hardcover one. There is no exercises in this book and I cannot use it for my class. Someone has told me this book is made for a unique school to use. and the code in the book is useless. I cannot enter in the website without a class key.
This book is absolutely worthless unless you are a professor of mathematics and you are doing research to write a better book. Oftentimes during my calculus course I would learn a specific topic in great detail from another book and then review this textbook, and be completely unable to understand the chicken scratch contained within. There are no explanations in this book! This book does not teach you how to use calculus. It is a vessel for the author to show the world what he knows. If you do not already understand something from this book you will have no way of learning it from this book. Again, utterly incomprehensible.
If you don't have a choice then good luck.  As a first year calc student this books leaves me wondering the heck is going on.  Doesn't explain things very well and inconsistencies everywhere. My school obviously didn't research other textbooks for Calc.  If possible avoid this textbook, you're better off utilizing youtube.  I'm so upset at this book I'm taking the time to put up a negative review.
The Kindle edition of this book is utterly worthless.  I won't even mention anything about the content of the book, I have the hardcover and it is covered elsewhere.   The Kindle edition, ladies and gentlemen, wait for it... HAS NO PAGES.  You read that correctly.  Each former page was divided into several parts.  Here is the start of a section: "^3, y=8, x=0, about the y-axis."  Where is that?  well, kindle says the location is 13300.  Yes, 13300!  What PAGE is it?  Kindle doesn't know!  I want to go to page 747.  Or Chapter 11, section 11.3.  Kindle can't get me there!  Kindle has no page information WHATSOEVER.  I don't know who is most responsible for this piece of garbage, Mr. Stewart or Jeff Bezos, but they should be ashamed for charging $50+ dollars for this piece of trash.  This a a standard Calculus text.  It is critically important for students across America, and here is this POS.  Good riddance Kindle.  I CAN'T CARRY the textbook, I use a wheelchair and work on a tablet.  So I cheat and use a bootlegged PDF of the book instead.  Go on Amazon and/or Stewart, sue me.  I dare you! Sam Lord
i ordered a calculus book and received an 1870 census for highland county ohio.. don't buy from this user
i bought this item thinking that this is what i need. however when i got it it wasn't the one that i needed. so i asked the seller if i can get a full refund right away. but i wasn't able to get it. so i just didn't like the return policy
I never received this book after waiting 4 weeks.  Amazon refunded the total amount paid.
This is NOT a review of quality of writing of the paper version.  This is a review of this book on Kindle DX, and there are two bad things about it.  1. Graphics look awful. Pixelated, blurry and with no contrast. I have last-gen Kindle DX and I'm not sure how graphics look on the regular Kindle. Maybe they were optimized for smaller Kindle, but on my DX they're blurry and awful. It's not an issue with Kindle screen, because the book text is crispy and nice. It's an issue with how they "optimized" graphics. It's also not an issue with Kindle graphics. I perfectly read other math books (see below) with graphics on the Kindle. It's just an issue with this particular book. Take in mind that these blurry images make about 25% of the content (in terms of screen space) and are essential part of the text.  2. Price is even worse. I can rent this book for free in a local library. I can rent it at chegg for $50 for a semester. I can buy a paper version and sell a used book for about the same loss ($50). The Kindle version which you can't resell costs $140. Is that how Jeff Bezos wants to promote Kindle device to mass?  And then somebody in the publisher will sit and think. "I knew that this whole Kindle thing was a fluke. We sell nothing on Kindle and tons of paperback". Well, dear publishers, that's because you are trying to sell a product of worse quality (see point about graphics) at a higher price (see the point about reselling the used version or renting it). It's not how you typically generate new business opportunities.  It's not a Kindle problem. Jim Hefferon's free pdf book on Linear Alegbra ([...]) reads perfectly on Kindle DX. It's a problem with Amazon's under-commitment to textbooks and publishers' under-commitment to making money on ereaders.
Nowadays, we are living in a world where we can purchase books, movies, and music without much difficulties at lower prices. When we are buying an electornic book online, we are simply paying for a file and copyright. It is understandable to pay over 100 dollars for a physical book, because we are not simply paying for an electronic file.
Like so many others wrote, the book stinks. It is an expensive piece of garbage. I can't believe professors use this textbook and I HATE the fact that my college does. If you read the textbook, you will notice that in its explanations that it omits some steps, leaving the user to wonder how they got their (They don't show you, they don't tell you. This is a textbook that should be collected and burned so no student would ever have to use it again. Also, as students, we have professors who assign homework problems from this book but when we try to do the problems we don't know how because the book doesn't give examples of the questions asked in the homework! It is driving me nuts and I hold a grudge against every professor who dares use this textbook. (Try not to spend your money on this piece of garbage if you don't have to; HUGE waste of money.) I also agree with those who mentioned Larson, much better textbook choice.
This book puts me through toil and strife, the simplest concepts it makes complex with its overly complicated explanations. If you have this book a solution manual is a MUST HAVE, though the solution manual has lapses itself. I would also include other Calculus books because I find most of them to be clearer in explanation than Stewarts. I would expect for a book so widely used to be better in explaining concepts. After the realizing this books lapses I have resorted to using KHan Academy and out-dated but resoundingly better calculus text books and I salvaged me grade. Pathetics
I took the first level of Calculus during my freshman year of college, when this book was used as a required text. It was often confusing in it's working of examples and often skipped steps, as it assumed that the student would understand why. I can see how this would be O.K. for those mathematically inclined, but for me, however, it ended up being a nightmare and I constantly had to get help from the tutoring center in understanding the material. I ended up getting a C in the course at the end of the semester. When it came time to take the second level of Calculus, the textbook was changed to Rogawski's Early Transcendentals. Rogawski was a lot easier to understand, examples were worked in great detail, the text was clear and to the point, and it even provided hints. I ended the class with an A. In addition, this book is quite hefty, making it a chore to drag to school every day. If you are looking for a book that will help you understand the already difficult subject matter better, look elsewhere, preferably to Rogawski.
This book was selected for Calculus 1 and 2 when I was a student in university together with Thomas Calculus (thank god!). Since Thomas was very difficult to find available in our library I tried to use Stewart's book. I have to admit I have never read anything worse in my life on any math subject. Reading it gives a student no knowledge and leaves him only frustrated and angry trying desperately to understand what in the world he just read. You will have to re-read the same sentence over and over again before you can make any sense out of it. Please do not waste your precious time on this monstrosity. Thomas book was quite good and I am sure there are plenty of others. If you prefer intuitive explanation to contemporary rigorous text go for Keisler's Elementary Calculus: An Infinitesimal Approach which is available online a free ebook and is unique in the way it teaches calculus. I am reviewing calculus again today. I honestly tried to give this book another chance (new edition) but it is just impossible. No book ever left so much frustrated.
I've been using this book for nearly a semester now and I can say with all confidence that it is the worst Mathematics book I have ever read in my life. It was written in a very long-winded and unclear style which discourages the reader from actually sitting down to read it.  Maths is all about succinctness; something this book definitely does not have. There are many examples, which is great, but the preceding theory and explanation is too weak to support the reader's understanding. Too many 'terms' which made me lose track on many occasions. Instead of limiting the number of terms used and sticking to as few versions of a formula as possible, Mr. Stewart appears to love rearranging formulae and giving them numbers which leaves the reader completely confused. Trust me, you do not need 1100+ pages of text (and many pictures!) to teach you good Maths. Take my advice and seek some other book, anything but this book.
Originally, there was the incorrect picture up about the book being sold. I was under the impression that I was getting the book Calculus 6th Edition. I was very unhappy upon receiving the book and it was the 4th Edition. Needless to say, I had to go out and buy the correct book and I'm stuck with the wrong one.
Besides the fact that going through the textbook actually feels a bit like sifting through word-vomit about math, there are also plenty of other faults with which Single Variable Calculus tries to take up as much of your time as possible before teaching you anything !  1. The examples are often too simple when compared to the second half of the problems for each chapter. 2. The examples for each chapter often do not explain how to do all the different types of problems that come up in the problems sets. 3. As if that isn't enough to sufficiently confuse you, let's not forget the most major fault with the book - about half the time the examples just randomly skip steps without even indicating it, basically punching holes in any life-boats you might have still been clinging to.  What Stewart does succeed in doing is proving the stereotypical image of a "math person" right in that he can certainly solve highly complex math problems, but cannot pass on the knowledge of HOW to do so to save his life. But, to be fair, if you actually manage to go through the word vomit, you will note that it is not for lack of trying.
The description said "Condition: Used - Good", but the cover over the binding was almost entirely detached.
its the wrong book and i did all the wrong problems and now i cant turn in my homework tomorrow.
Please, ignore the five star ratings for this book. They should be directed at Amazon or other distributors, and have no bearing on the content of this text. Instead, they relate to the timely and safe manner in which the text was transported. I have worked with this text for a little over a year now, in two calculus courses. I sincerely agree with the reviews by individuals who have ACTUALLY read the text, instead of simply buying it and staring at the package. This book is atrocious. The examples are far from helpful. An instance: In the chapter on integrals the book uses an example to teach the definition of the integral with an ESTIMATION. It estimates the area of a portion of the area under the curve to be a certain number and then calculates this along with other information to come to it's answer. If I am learning something, I don't want to be taught through estimates, I want clear concise directions that can be repeated without deviation or error. As well, only a single problem is shown, with very little true explanation. More detailed explanation of at least three different problems per topic would be preferable, so a student can then gain a more confident and clear  understanding. Similar examples of this book's tedious and unclear  nature are common within it's pages. I hope in future editions these changes are made.
I'm in the 2nd semester of Calculus with this textbook, and I am so continually frustrated and angered by the poor manner in which Stewart explains himself that I felt compelled to write this review to warn others. The professors apparently love it, but the students that I know hate it for the reason I just cited. The other reviewers have said much the same thing, and I wholeheartedly agree.  I have used other math textbooks in earlier Algebra that were so easy to use, you almost don't even need a professor; you can just read the book and do the lessons. I believe that is the way a REAL textbook on a math subject should be: focused on the needs of the student who hasn't been studying math for 20+ years (like the author) and needs basic steps explained so that they don't spend endless hours trying to connect the dots when it should have been laid out for them.  Even worse, I found, was the so-called Answer Book for this textbook. I paid >$50 for it, expecting to receive "the answers" to the problems. Instead, I received the "end of the answer" along with the same frustrating step-jumping explanation which many times did more to hurt than to help. I feel that if I have paid good money for the answers, that is exactly what I should get: ALL of the answer, including EVERY step and information needed to help me understand how he arrived at the answer. That was not given, so I definitely feel cheated in this purchase.  As others have noted, if one needs a Calculus refresher book, this is a good one for that purpose; but it is a poor textbook for new Calculus students, even for those with strong math skills, IMO.  Professors and College textbook purchasers: stay away from this book at all costs!!! Please, for the sake of your students. There are other Calculus textbooks which will work much better for your students.
Many of the practice exercises are not even remotely covered by one of the examples in the chapter. While this can be an interesting challenge, it more often than not causes frustration and impedes learning the material. This textbook isn't a suitable substitute for even an awful teacher.
I AM BOOKLESS B/C OF THIS SELLER. I had to barrow the text book for my Cal. III class from my teacher because I never got my own book.  I e-mailed the seller and he said that he sent it and would check in on it.  I have been trying to get a hold of him after his e-mail and have not been able to. If he was tring to make good with me I did not know about. I do not know if anything is happening.
This book is so condescending, it jumps from point A to B without actually explaining the reasoning. Many of the diagrams are presented in a way that is hard to understand. I'm a freshmen in College and I usually don't have this much trouble in math. However, this book confuses me to the point that I use another textbook for actual learning! Thank god our teacher doesn't collect homework because the problems in the book goes from a low-level problems to a high level problems-like that! I had to do my homework from another textbook and I'm Acing the test now. A feat that would have been impossible using this textbook solely alone. If you want to learn, please consider buying another textbook!
sorry but there's no way a calculus textbook can be worth $150. even $75 would be a huge stretch. and this book isn't good to begin with. i remember using it (a previous edition, although the only thing that changes are the problems) in high school. i went through the entire thing, and managed to get straight A's on everything without actually learning what calculus is. at the time i was content with good grades because i was busy worrying about other things like my clothes and friends, but looking back on it i'm really disappointed that i didn't learn anything by reading the book. it certainly won't teach you the heart of calculus. i recommend the silvanus thompson book to teach yourself. college textbooks are, in general, badly written and overpriced by a factor of 400%.
I would gladly give you a review but you clowns have failed to ship the text.  I get nothing but the run around concerning this.
As another reviewer said, the learning curve for those coming out of pre-calculus is too steep. The sample problems presented in this book are not explained clearly, and the problem sets are useless when it comes to creating an exam.
I am currently a freshman in college just finishing a calculus course, and throughout the whole semester i have been given homework assignments supposedly "based on readings in the book." Every homework assignment has resulted in a severe headache due to countless hours spent on solving problems that are so many levels above what the chapters actually explain. There are problems at the end of each chapter based on its teachings, but so many of them require knowledge of irrelevant identities never taught throughout the book. The fact that I had a good teacher for that class is the only reason why I got an A, because this textbook is a miserable labyrinth of assumptions and vague teachings. I am starting to believe that the only reason universities support this book is because of its online homework system.
I wish I could write my own book on calc at this moment while I'm learning it, so that I know which topics I must explain with great care, not to confuse students. This book took more pages on exercises that it did for explaining the subject. Sections are short, sometimes very short, but exercises--sometimes you'll count them up to 100(!) for just one short section! Man, what kind of reasoning is it? Everyone in the world knows that calc isn't an easy subject to learn, and yet authors do not take their time to explain topics with care. Proofs are so technical, seems like it was written by a computer, not by a human being. Authors like Stewart simply forget that not everybody understands calc the way they do, and that some students, if not all, need extra examples and explanations before they can do a bunch of exercises.
I'm not impressed with this book as a learning guide. As others have said, you can't learn calculus on your own with this book and I can assure you they are correct with that claim. You'll definitely need a person with a thorough knowledge of calculus to answer every problem you encounter and trust me, you're going to encounter A LOT with this book! The example problems do very little with helping to solve the assignment problems. In fact, the example problems are as good as useless to me because the author doesn't EXPLAIN how they're solved. He just solves them and you have to figure out how he's doing it! It's so frustrating. As a student, there's nothing more discouraging than not being able to understand how to work your way through a problem and that's where this author fails. Rather than building your confidence and starting easy and gradually making the problems more difficult, you're just thrown into the meat grinder of calculus and expected to spend X amount of time deciphering gibberish formulas and trying to piece them into place in hopes that you've correctly applied it to the assignment problem. Every single problem I've worked through I've had to look in the answer section only to find out my answer as wrong and re-work the problem again and again to solve it. If your school uses this book (ie: you're forced into using this book), then I HIGHLY recommend you get the solutions manual and any other text such as a 'Dummies' book to accompany this one because it's going to be hard to learn calculus with this book alone.  Bottom line: I don't recommend this book. If you're not required to buy it, then don't!
I'm a freshman and this book is used for my Calculus class and it is probably the worst thing to "learn" calculus from. The examples in this book are in no way supportive of the problems. The problems at the end of each chapter are pretty difficult and the examples do not help. There is little explanation as to how to solve the problems and does not help build a solid foundation of fundamental ideas. The book is horrible in theory and application. I really want to write a letter to Stewart telling him how bad of a book it really is. Please do not try to purchase this book. It is not sufficient at all to learn calculus from.
This book is awful, plain and simple. It is hard to understand, and not very helpful.
I have used two calculus books in my lifetime so far. This one was the second and I just ended up confused. I recomend you find some other textbook. The pictures are nice, but I don't think that the book is well written and easy to follow.
I just took first semester Calc at a different school that uses a text that is very easy to understand and learn from.  The text I used for the first semester had basic problems at the begining of each section's exercises that helped get you going in the right direction towards learning the material.  The Stewart book is horrible.  The exercises in this text immediately jump into very complicated problems which makes the material horribly painstaking to learn.  I believe this text is an incredible disservice to students trying to learn this material.  I HATE THIS TEXT!!!
If you think you know calculus because you understand this book, you are sadly mistaken.  There is no rigor, no real problem solving, just paint by numbers. Calculus is pretty much the end of basic mathematics, this book will not get you ready for real mathematical rigor in advanced classes.  I guess this book is fine if you aren't a scientist, engineer, computer scientist, economist, or mathematician. Then again, if you aren't any of the above you likely aren't in a calc class. In short, this book is for nobody.  The real crime here is that James Stewart is getting rich off this [...], and damaging the future of many students. Overpriced, overhyped, just pure garbage. If this book is required, complain to the math department and then get a real calculus book, and just borrow someone elses copy to get homework assignments. Don't be a sucker.
All the math professors around the world need to wake up!  They will find this book easy as they already know the material, but for students this is a terrible book.  Stewart's explanations are just confusing.  And the exercises are all extremely difficult enough; the solutions manual, by the way, is literally a required book if you expect to muster the exercises.  I had to use this book for Calculus I and II and at the end of level II, I left more confused about math than ever before.  My level III professor uses the calculus book written by Roland Larson, which I find to be way better than Stewart's.  If you are lucky to choose your Calculus textbook, then pass on this book!  I would recommend Larson's instead.  And if you are stuck with Stewart's, I'd still go to your library and find Larson's book (or anyone else's) to learn from.  I should add this as well.  I have taken a high school AP Calculus course AND Calculus I and II courses in college with this book.  I received a C+ in the AP course, C in Calc I, and D in Calc II.  I retook Calc II at another college where I also took Calc III.  Both those classes DIDN'T use this book, and I got a B+ and A respectively for both courses. Note that except for the high school course, none of my professors or TAs were of the type to help students. I hope that says a lot.
I am a math tutor, but not a genious. Actually, to understand math, it is not necessary to be high-iq endowed. The motivation needed to continue studying math further after algebra is the love for the subject. Stewart will not throw any wood to the fire. The book has made Calculus a true undescribable challenge to my friends and I. I have struggled to understand every topic of the book, only to worry about the next because the book is really bad at explaining a simple thing like integrating. What has really helped me out in surviving in the course is the fact that I have checked out various books from other authors. The only positive aspect of the book are the exercises which are trully challenging but you learn to master with the aid from other tools. Nevertheless, there are just too many applications provided in this book sure to make the reader overwhelmed. What I despise about Stewart are, as mentioned before, the unexplained algebraic leaps from the examples given. The theory served in every chapter makes the student feel uncomfortable at actually touching the material, because of the doubt one will ever be able to master it. Teachers sure love the book for the fact that they, of course, know the material and so the additional theory is something new for them to ponder on. Serious students will hardly ever have the time to really understand all the filler this book offers. I can understand why fifty percent of Calculus I students fail it the first time. This book contributes to that. All in all, if you have to use this book to learn calculus, good luck. The only pride you can have is the fact that you were brave enough to study math beyond the basics, and you will show it by carrying this book on campus. Rest assured that the contents are nothing to be proud of. And let's not even talk about the solutions manual......
This was the textbook required for my calculus 1 class. My instructor at the College of Lake County was great. This book on the other hand sucked. I can often learn from the book if I have to. With this book that is impossible. It was so difficult to understand. I often had to go to tutors to decipher what I needed to know from the book.  The only good thing about this book is all the problems they give you for practice and if you have the solutions manual you can see each step in solving the problem. There is a pdf on the internet that has every problem in the book worked out. This was a great advantage because I was able to do the even problems as well. We didn't have assigned homework so there was no wrongdoing.  There definitely were issues with the answers and solution manual. There were incorrect answers in several places.  Well I got a D in the class the first time so I had to take it again. I got a B the second time. I am trying to find a copy of this book for cheap so I can refer to it if I need to. I am not buying it again because I like the book, I am merely buying it because I am used to it and have a decent understanding of it. Perhaps I will get an older edition for cheap. they don't change really at all from edition to edition.
This is one of the worst examples of a math textbook I have seen in a long while. The material is badly organized with the student skipping from topic to topic without rhyme or reason. Stewarts writing is horrible. It is a mix of everyday language and advanced math terms (some of which he seems to have found in a dictionary since he doesn't use them correctly) that is almost impossible to understand without reference to another book. The graphics are small, badly placed, and horribly labelled all of which makes using them very difficult. In several section the proofs and theories he gives are wrong yet the error will be repeated several times without it being caught then in the next chapter the right one will be used without comment.
This book does not seem to be written for students!  This book seems like an "Oh-Ho, look at how smart I am, let me see if I can confuse Mathematics Doctorates everywhere!  Students, ha!  I will impress all of my colleagues with this little gem!"  Granted that reading math is not the easiest thing to do, but this is not an amiable book for students, I would be more inclined to be taught with a Schaum's Outline than this!  This seems to be a trend with mathematics and science text books though.  Only written to impress others in the field with little care for someone trying to actually LEARN the material.  Thank you for your time.
Despite the title and mind boggling number of positive reviews this book has received, this book DOES NOT cover the subject of Calculus. It is a tragic mixture of some ungodly manner of Intuitionist Mathematics and real Calculus. If all you are interested in is computing a few things, a derivative here, an integral there, regardless of what they mean or how they rigorously come into existence, then this book is satisfactory. (By the way, if this is your attitude then I recommend transfering to the drama department because math and science is not for you.)  If you want to know anything about how real Calculus works then avoid this book like the plague. You should read Apostol's, Courant's, or Spivak's books on Calculus. They may not be as pretty or colorful but they have real meat on the bone. You could spend days on a few pages of those books and come away with a real understanding of the nature and purpose of functions and limits.  I have read several reviews that claim things like, "Stewart clearly has a vast knowledge of Calculus". While I can not confirm or deny that claim, never having met James Stewart, I can confirm that, if he does, then it doesn't come through in this book. This book is emblematic of the modern approach of Intuitionist Mathematics that is pervasive in Engineering and non-Math programs. While tempting to teach limits and other mathematical processes and constructs solely through analogies, gut feelings, and statements like "well it's clear that this and that happens . . .", this approach ignores the fact that there are many many conclusions that are reached in mathematics that are not always intuitive. It may work for some trivial theorems but getting students into this intuitive trap, particularly in what will likely be their first college math course, is unforgivable. There is no substitute for rigor and logic. nuff said.
This book is awful. Each chapter offers no concrete examples. All examples are in an x-y theorm type form, which does not help me as a student. I want to see a problem that i can refer to before and while doing the problems  The explanations skip major steps, it takes 10 minutes to figure out how and why he goes from point a to b.  In the derivatives section an example is given with a variable, example X, well the derivate of X is one, so our teacher had to point out to us that we do have to take the derivative of this X, and not just multiply by one as written in the book. If you where reviewing this on your own at home and had no prior knowledge of derivatives, you would never see that.  This is pathetic, i have refferd to my calculus for dummies book in order to explain what stewart is supposed to explain.  For a book that cost 150$, i expect it to do a better job than Calc for dummies which was 15bucks.  Just goes to show you, price does not equal quality.
This is supposed to be an introductory text, yet it assumes the reader is somewhat familar with the calculus concepts. Add that to his annoying habit of making odd algebraic leaps with no explaination and you have a bad text.  Nearly every student I know, hates this book, yet the teachers love it. That shows how poorly aimed it is. If an introductory text is written so only a math professor can work through it, the book needs to go back to the design stage. The worst is the chapter covering the fundamental thereom of calculus. After working through every single chapter in the book, that chapter still confuses me. You would think the one chapter he would make the most clear, would be the one that the entire subject is built on.  The chapter on differential equations is so out of place and pointless. It should be removed. For some odd reason it separated the chapters on parametric equations/polar coordinates(for some reasons, they shoved conics here) and vectors, and stuck infinite series and sequences between them. What sense is that?  Before someone makes broad generalizations about how bad I am in math. I get A's in math and understand it, and just about have my minor. I am not the problem, this book is. The main thing is that this book only really covers algorthims, it never touched on the big questions: why did it this way, and where does concept x come from. If you really want to learn calculus, avoid this book. It will not give you a deep understanding of a deep and critical subject.  An intro text should cover the how, and this one does, but also the why, which is cloaks in obtuse proofs and explianations. I have had only one excepllent math text and that was written by the instructor and tailored to his class. Every other generic math text I have read has been barely adequate or worse. This is one of the worst. I think the only one I had that was worse was 'A transition to advanced  mathematics'
I had taught this book several times and I only get more and more frustrated with it. This is a text book full of mistakes.  I began to wonder if the author was indeed a mathematician.  Some complained that this book was proof-oriented but I don't feel this way.  The proofs presented are either too shallow or wrong.  If I were a good student trying to figure out why a theorem might work, its explanation would only raise more questions for me.  And I had yet to find another textbook which gives a wrong proof to a simple result such as lim{x->0} sin x / x =1. Some praised the problem sets given.  I feel the opposite.  The problems sets are shallow and present no challenge at all to the more advanced students.  Some of them even appeared before the material was covered.  The examples are either trivial or wrong.  I was startled to see the author gave the wrong solution to some of the most classical problems in calculus.  For example, the author could use implicit differentiation to find tangents at a self intersection!!  Wow, I am lost for words. More better examples than those given are needed to help students avoid some of the common pitfalls that they often encounter.  The inverse trig functions were also defined most scandulously.  Although I can guess the reason behind it, but I think the definition could present a false security to students who are not careful with composites of trig and inverse trig functions. The materials are scattered around with no rythem at all.  I often found myself working into a concept and before the climax the book suddenly digressd to something else.  The most obvious example is parametrization.  This was separated into several parts and could have been easily treated as a coutinuos flow. The treatment of vector calculus part is substandtard, but I assume this is probably hard for many authors.  Vectored-valued functions of several variables are hard for most students to visualize in their minds.  So the 3D graphics in the textbooks come to play a very important role helping students understand this part of material.  But the graphics in this book lack the clarity as those in some other books I had used before.  Somehow they look less 3D to me. I had found more than a dozen of mistakes (I am not talking about typos) during the course of my teaching and I had not read the book cover to cover.  Since this is a very popular book I regret to see that no effort had been made to correct the mistakes after so many editions.
(review of 4th ed.) I have used this gargantuan book for three semesters now. This book is proof that quality does not equal quantity (1100+ pages). The book has lots of pictures, which I suppose is why it is so big. How do color photographs of nature scenes aid one's understanding of calculus?  Answer: they don't...period. Yet for such a large book, coverage is quite sparse.  The coverage starts with a slow introduction to functions, which I suppose is good for high-school students or students who lack the most basic mathematical background, but not for typical college students. Very little of the coverage has any depth, and too many proofs are 'outside the scope of this book'.  By the time Stewart gets to vector calculus (covered in a single chapter), the coverage has become pure cookbook.  For instance, divergence and curl are given as formulas, with no real discussion of their significance. Also, the book is organized very strangely. For instance, parametric equations and parametric surfaces are discussed in separate chapters.  Even worse, the relationships between parametric curves, scalar fields and vector fields (the three types of multivariable functions) are never discussed. Perhaps it was just hard for me to see the relationships because they were on opposite sides of an 1100-page phonebook! Suggestion to Mr. Stewart: If you feel your book really needs to be so long winded, at least break the book into two or three volumes. Carrying my books to class shouldn't feel like boot camp!!! My friends think I'm carrying bricks in my backpack!!! And to the students: if you have a choice in the matter, consider either Apostol's "Calculus" or Spivak's "Calculus".  If you are really adventurous, try Courant or maybe even Rudin.  Also, for a pretty-good intro to vector calculus, check out Schey's "Div, Grad, Curl".
This text might be a good suppliment for a class tought by a higly motivated professor, but is awful for learning from.  In other words, this book is a suppliment, or a reference, not a teacher.  I've used almost all of Stewarts books on the Calculus, and I find the books to be great to reference or memorize formulas from, but that's as far as it goes.  Don't buy it unless you must.  Also, I've  found several errors in the text.
This book is not the worst book on calculus, but it's one of the bad ones. If you're a professor or already learned calculus, you'll probably won't have trouble following it. However, for students like me taking calculus for the first time in my life, I find it VERY VERY hard to follow. I "was made" to purchase this book because my school uses this book. .. Wanna learn Calculus? STAY AWAY FROM Stewarts calulus!
Ok let's get one thing straight. After finishing Precaculus, almost NO student is going to remember everything that he or she has learned in those classes. This book makes the erroneous assumption that they have. The example problems help for one or two problems but after that you're on your own. The solutions manual leaves out more steps than a blind carpenter, and the written text is full of jargon that Newton himself wouldn't understand. After 3 semesters with this book I am glad to say I never have to look at it ever again. In fact for much of Calc II I used a different book! If you're a Professor thinking about making your students use this book, please look elsewhere. Don't make them spend valuable money on a text that they will end up resenting you for.  EDIT 10 Years Later: A couple of months ago I was cleaning out my closet and found this book in there. After an initial fit of rage brought on by some sort of Post Calculus Stress Disorder, I thought, "Didn't I review this on Amazon?". Well apparently I had. So I decided to look up my review and it actually made me look back at a lot of reviews I wrote around the same time period about books and music. While reading through a lot of the reviews, I was struck by a lack of maturity and inability to look at things from a different point of view. I was just a young, dumb, college graduate. I've really grown emotionally as a person since then. My opinion of No Doubt's album Rocksteady is remarkably different than it was back then. Why was I commenting so much on Gwen Stefani's hair? Who gives a crap? So, while I feel a little more mature, and feel I may have rated somethings unfairly in the past, this review, however, is still right on the money. I hated this book and I still hate it. In fact, later I'm going to pee on it. I can't wait to read this review in another ten years.
This is an inferior text-book.  I haven't the faintest idea why seemingly every college in America chooses this book.  Stewart's tome is replete with "eye-candy" and is inconsistant.  He explains some things rigorously and others intuitavely.  If your univerisity uses this text, I hope you have a good professor.
The information is incomplete. Stewart goes out of his way to make calculus as confusing as possible. Concepts are not fully explained. Some proofs are incomplete. I had to refer to an old textbook from the clearence rack ... written by Sokowski to learn the concepts. The author does an exceptionally poor job of explaining derivatives and integrals of exponential functions. Book weighs a ton!
Again I will say that James Stewart should not be writing calculus textbooks. His book stinks. All it has is a bunch of theroems that are not throughly explained. He has no clear and concise examples to illustrate how the theroems apply to calculus. There are way better calculus textbooks than this one. This is one of the most poorly written calculus textbooks on the teaching market. This book should not even be considered for a learning tool for calculus. In order for this book to be as good as the other calculus textbooks, HE MUST give plenty examples in doing calculus problems on EVERY section. He must make sure that each example is concise and clear with NO mathematical steps skipped. As long as James Stewart's calculus textbook keeps taking shortcuts in illustrating the concepts and methodology of calculus, it will always be a low quality calculus textbook. That is plain and simple.
this text is hard to understand. A lot of the stuff is unclear. Make sure to get a good professor to explain the book! The book doesn't hold up its own end of the deal.
There is nothing to say, this book will drive you crazy. I have never seen such a terrible math book in my life. Doesn't give insufficient information to solve exercise problems and makes me feel terribly retarded although my IQ is greater than 40 ;). Don't by this book and tell everybody not to buy it!
This is the absolutely worst mathematics textbook that I've ever come across (and I've seen plenty).  I'm not going to be shy about telling everyone I know that this book stinks.  Please note that most positive reviews came from musty, old mathematicians who weren't trying to learn from this book.  I enjoy math and calculus, but I get nothing from this book.  Had I not learned calculus first from other textbooks and professors, I would not have been able to even partly understand anything Stewart was trying to get across.  In his explanations, he often goes from point A to point B without telling his method for doing so.  There were a number of times where I would stare at the pages, wondering how he came up with his answers (at the time I just figured it was magic).  Another annoying habit Stewart has, is giving the easiest example problems that he can.  This can really screw you over when he gives an oversimplified example for a theorem, and then in the problem set, creates a god-awful mess.  There were alot of problems that I couldn't even start because Stewart didn't give adequate explanations or examples. The bottom line: If you're a student, don't try to learn from this book,and if you're a teacher, please don't teach from this book.  Be thankful that there are other textbooks available.
If you are required to buy this book for class, like I was, then there is nothing you can do.  If you don't have to buy this book, then don't bother.  It is not user friendly.  I finally went and bought another calculus book that was easier to understand.
Up until I took calculus from this book I thought I was pretty good in  math.  On several occasions I read the author's presentations over and  over.  Either he has no idea how to explain things OR I have simply lost my  math ability.  I hope it is the latter because I need to take two other  math courses.  Hopefully, they will not be courses that use books by this  author.
I don't expect a beginning level calculus text to have all the rigor  necessary to develop calculus with precision.  I do expect, however, that  the author of such a text be honest and tell students that the mathematical  precision necessary for the course is only appropriate at higher level  courses.  What bothers me greatly about this text is that it purports to be  rigorous, complete, and precise.  I am writing this review to tell you that  it is not!  It has many problems in theory, especially in the third  semester.  Here is one example of the sloppiness in the text.  The text  claims that a "parametric curve" is a set of points in the  coordinate plane.  This is not correct.  This is the definition of a  "graph."  A parametric curve is supposed to be defined as a set  of points in the coordinate plane TOGETHER with a set of parametric  equations that generate the points.
I cannot recommend this text for use with students who need help with  calculus.  Perhaps students who already know calculus might find the book  interesting, but that is only a guess.  I can attest to the fact that the  typical student in my class found the text disjointed, frustrating, and  verbose.
We adopted this book because several of our neighboring colleges use the  text.  After using the book I am stunned that any college continues to use  it.  Our department never had so many complaints from students.  We almost  always suffer through a text for the full 4-year adoption period.  This  text was so bad that we dropped it after one year.
I have been teaching calculus at a university for over 20 years.  I was on  the adoption committee to select calculus texts.  I had heard that the  Stewart text was a national best seller, so I volunteered to review it.  I  was startled.  I can see now reason why this text is widely used.  It is  even more difficult to believe that its author has had any classroom  experience with honest-to-goodness calculus students.  The writing is  rambling and obtuse.  The design is not helpful and blends prose with  examples.  The art is irregular, some art is small and some is huge, some  topics that cry for graphs have none and some that don't need graphs have  several.  I have used several other texts and it appears that the author  used a cut and paste technique to create this text, taking liberally from  other best sellers.  After a careful review of this "popular"  text, I felt obligated to write this review.  Someone needs to point out  that the "emperor is not wearing any clothes!"
I have been teaching calculus at a university for over 20 years.  I was on  the adoption committee to select calculus texts.  I had heard that the  Stewart text was a national best seller, so I volunteered to review it.  I  was startled.  I can see now reason why this text is widely used.  It is  even more difficult to believe that its author has had any classroom  experience with honest-to-goodness calculus students.  The writing is  rambling and obtuse.  The design is not helpful and blends prose with  examples.  The art is irregular, some art is small and some is huge, some  topics that cry for graphs have none and some that don't need graphs have  several.  I have used several other texts and it appears that the author  used a cut and paste technique to create this text, taking liberally from  other best sellers.  After a careful review of this "popular"  text, I felt obligated to write this review.  Someone needs to point out  that the "emperor is not wearing any clothes!"
This book is not recommended for students who need clear simple writing.  I really bugs me that teachers are the ones who choose textbooks.  They  often seem to choose a high-toned book like this.  It is clearly written  for teachers, NOT for students.
I took calculus from this book.  I am an engineering student.  The book  did not help me in my engineering classes.  To get help, I had to go to the  library and check out other calculus books that had more practical,  engineering examples.  I would not recommend this book to a student who  wants to know how calculus is used in engineering.
I suffered through 3 quarters of calc with stewart's last edition (3rd ed.) at OSU. This book will likely prove exceedingly difficult for the math averse, and is certainly a terror to read for even science/eng majors who  have not seen the material before. Lucid it is not. The chapter on infinite  series/sequences is terrible. If you are buying this book for a calc class  I strongly suggest you buy the solutions manual; for several sections,  including very important ones (eg integration by parts, trig substitution,  chain rule, some series stuff), the explanation in the book was so  obscure/incomplete that I actually learned the material by consulting the  solutions manual. I have not used the study guide, and cannot comment on  its usefulness.
Specifically, This book... Contains many errors, which have been discovered by students. Offers far too few examples for the student to learn from. Generally, students who use this book need to consult other  books to learn the material.
Just a mite difficult to review,alas--I never heard of, never ordered,thus, surprisingly, never purchased,this book--I suggest someone in your squeaky chain of command gets a severe rap on the knuckles  from their immediate superior--and sends me a gratuitous copy,barely recompense for my obvious emotional body blow.
Did not read the entire book.  I could not handle the dialects of Cumberland and they were a terrible distraction. So much so, that I stopped reading.  Maybe if I lived for a longer period in some parts of the British Empire, I may have enjoyed it.  So you may say my one start is meant to be an incomplete rather than a rating.  The author explained his reasons for using the dialect in the book.  He also provides examples like:  "Have you seen a donkey jump over a gate?"  Which is  "EST SEEN A COODY LOUP OWER A YETT?"  Simply stated, it wasn't for me.
After 5 pages into the story itself, i was completely lost in the dialect. Too bad cause i've read a couple other books by british authors about ww2 & they were very understandable
The worst book ever!!!!! totally agree with other reviews who ranked it with 1 star!!! you'd better find some other good books, or online notes, but never never this book!!!
The authors attempt to teach differential equations in paragraph form.  They define jargon with more jargon and supplement it with variables that they either don't define or define in terms so ridiculously ambiguous that they are impossible to decipher into English.  Here is one example from page 6: "The pair of equations    dP/dt = kP for all t,  P(0)=Po  is called an initial-value problem.  A solution to the initial value problem is a function P(t) that satisfies both equations. That is,    dP/dt = kP for all t  and  P(0) = Po  The function P(t) is called the solution to the initial-value problem as well as a particular solution of the differential equation.  The collection of functions P(t) = ce^kt is called the general solution of the differential equation because we can use it to find the particular solution corresponding to any initial-value problem.  It doesn't get any better.  The EXAMPLE PROBLEMS themselves are presented in PARAGRAPH FORM... WHO DOES THAT!?!? What little math there actually is in any of the examples skip over sometimes 5 or 6 sequential steps leaving you wondering "How the HELL did they get that answer??"  It is literally impossible to learn differential equations from this book.  DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY!!!
The book is confusing. As others said, it reads like a novel. This is not what you want in a book that is supposed to teach math.  If you're smart and understand things easily, this is for you. If you need help with concepts and remembering formulas, this book will do you no good.
Quite possibly the most useless math textbook I have ever used.  It aims for a conversational style but does so poorly and is very difficult to follow.  It is impossible to use as a reference because the useful parts of the book are obfuscated by the authors' style complete lack of organization.  The book might be usable in the hands of a talented professor but, without that, will make the task of learning differential equations much more difficult than necessary.  Textbooks like this are the reason so many students grow up to hate math.
TERRIBLE.........do not buy this book. If you need it for a class download the pdf online free by searching the title on google then sign up for chegg ($15/month) which has every solution step by step. Without Chegg I'm not sure how it is possible to learn from this horribly written book.
Will not work with iPad so returning to amazon
Was not large print
I hated God.
I ordered this item as a gift for someone who needed a spiral backed hymnbook with a hard back for use at the piano. I was sent a package of hole-punched pages with with no hardback and no spiral backing. They were just loose pages. It has been a month now and no explanation has been offered for the discrepancy between the Amazon description and the actual product by Amazon. I returned it, but I still do not have a hard bound spiral backed hymnbook.
Not the new King James version
This is still a Holy Bible and I will treat it with respect however, in my opinion, the people selling this book do not deserve much respect at all. I was very disappointed in this Bible when I opened it. It is a burgandy imitation leather (very poor attempt) NKJV Bible and the font is 13 pt as advertised, but the 4 primary customer pics are nowhere to be found in this book.  The flurished lettering is nowhere to be found. The stiffened spine, front and back mentioned in older reviews is nowhere to be found. Just glancing thru it put very noticable creases on the pressed paper like cover. It was an inexpensive Bible and that is exactly what you will receive. The highest quality material I received with my order was the sleeve the book was wrapped in. Like we have all heard "if it sounds too good to be true then it probably isn't." I believe the seller is allowing reviews of an older version of this product to persist. Beware.
The navigation options on the edition are terrible. If you want to read from straight through from Genesis to Revelations then you can probably use this. If, like me, you need to move from place to place look elsewhere.
I like the version but causes new Kindle Oasis to lock up and crash.
I like that it has the apocrypha and the book of Enoch, but the script or font is so small, it's a hard read with my glasses... It big too. But that understandable...
I have read eight books by Helen MacInnes: 127 Assignment in Brittany, by Helen MacInnes  (read 1943) 128 Above Suspicion, by Helen MacInnes  (read 1943) 2099 Cloak of Darkness, by Helen MacInnes  (read 13 Sept 1987) 2556 Prelude to Terror, by Helen MacInnes  (read 28 Nov 1993) 2583 The Salzburg Connection, by Helen MacInnes  (read 19 Feb 1994) 3242 The Snare of the Hunter, by Helen MacInnes  (read 8 Sep 1999) 3249 Neither Five Nor Three, by Helen MacInnes  (read 4 Oct 1999) 4086 Rest and Be Thankful, by Helen MacInnes  (read 31 Oct 2005) This is undoubtedly the worst of the eight, tho Neither Five Nor Three is also not worth reading.  There is no thrill nor any suspense in this book so if that is what you like about MacInnes books this is to advise you that this book has none of such.  This is an insipid account of two women who buy a house on a ranch in Wyomaing, invite some New York writers to it, and then tell what was said and done, usually with the idea that the Wyoming natives are much smarter and more interesting than those stupid New Yorkers.  I think this is the least interesting book I have read this year.
Crashes my Kindle almost every time I try to open it.  Had to delete it.
I've used this book for a couple years and I really liked it but recently I opened it and found the page view had changed. Instead of having a full screen view I got a smaller view instead. Also, the left portion of the next page could be seen on the right side of the screen and the right portion of the previous page intruded onto the left side of the screen. The book and chapter serch function has changed too. Instead of simply chosing a book from the drop down menu (3 horizontal lines at the top left corner of the screen) and then chosing a chapter, I now have to go directly to the book summary and turn the page to the first chapter of the book. Then I have to touch the page to enlarge it to full screen view, then I have to touch the chapter number at the top of the page. That opens up another list of books with the option to chose a chapter number. ThenI can chose the chapter I want and when I get there I have to touch it again to go to full screen mode. The Thomas Nelson company must have spent months figuring out how to make bible reading more dificult for the reader. It was great when I first downloaded it a couple years ago. Why did they make these awful changes?
This is NOT a 1976 edition as advertised. It is copywritten in 1990. Very displeased. Was specifically looking for a bible that was copywritten before 1980.
This is not a king james version.
There is a number search but no letters.  Cannot type the books in,  was going to order again but can't find now.
Very Small print and poorly made hard to read !
Its the Bible, what more can one say I gave it a 1 Star rating, because I feel this is silly
The books added such as Enoch, Jasher, Jubilee etc are not part of the authorized KJV.
No table of contents
The print is super small but it couldve been wonderful to read
The paperback version is terrible. It is obviously a poor cheep print on demand kind of situation. The largest word on the spine is "Various" which I guess is the authors. This book is large 8-1/2 X 11 yet the type is so tiny I have trouble reading it, and I am used to small pocket size books. There are entire sections of the bible where the running header (name of the book) is not correct. It seems obvious that this was some kind of automated process and was not created and reviewed by a human to decide what looks good and is useful for an actual user. I returned this bible.
Wasn't rightly translated in some instances, pushes the lie that Israel was white via lamentations 4:7. This is a blatant lie to perpetuate white supremacy. Let the word be told or sold in truth please! Peace!
Review of the Kindle edition, not the Bible... This is not "New King James", but is "King James". Thus, it is not by Thomas Nelson who is the actual publisher of NKJV. "Kristian" society of India? Who are they? Format was not easily searchable with no contents which is required for useful navigation in the Bible. Not recommended.
cheaply made huge not good size wouldn't buy again low low quality 7 dollar book
Place ce by mistake.
This Bible was listed as a King James Version including the apocrypha.  It is incomplete, missing all of the New Testament and Apocrypha and part of the Old Testament.  This makes it worthless for reference as I was looking for a copy of the apocrypha.
worthless on trip, couldn't navigate when i needed it and wouldn't load without internet even tho i previouly loaded it.  would not buy again
Product description did not decribe the size of the text... The lettering is way too small to read in the paperback version...
Impossible to navigate, navigation is broken.
Crashes two different Kindle devices I've tried it on, including a brand-new Kindle Paperwhite.
The Kindle e-book version does not function properly on my Kindle.  When opening & attempting to read, my Kindle restarts.  I am returning for a refund.
Alexa would not read this Bible from any of my devices from the Kindle app.
Warning: DO NOT BUY THIS PRODUCT! It crashes my paperwhite every time I open it. Total waste of money.
It's unusable! I've tried downloading it on my Kindle Paperwhite and Oasis and it crashes both devices every time try to nagivate within the book. I've redownloaded the book five times, rebooted the Kindle at least as many times with the same result! Returned for refund!
ARRIVED DAMAGED COVER
EXTREMELY TINY PRINT !  IT COULD HAVE BEEN GREAT, BUT THEY MADE IT SO SMALL
The "apocrapha" (so called) is missing.  Deuterocanonical books should include:  Tobit Judith Additions to Esther Wisdom Sirach (Ecclesiasticus) Baruch Additions to Daniel 1 Maccabees 2 Maccabees  Please ship what you are advertising in the future.
Bought this version for my kindle. So why isthere no table of contents, or links to specific points in the text?  Hardly usable the way it was delivered to my kindle. Thank you.
I have a few words for this book. Confusing dailaouge, hmm..., hmm... I really liked the movie bettter but who doesn't like movies better than books. I think another reason I didn't like this book is becuase I had to  read it while I was sick over thanksgiving, along with reading Bram  Stoker's Dracula and H.G. Wells' the isle of dr. maeru,(or something like  that) but I guess it's ok if you think about it I just don't really like it
Great book, easy to read print on the Kindle Paperwhite.  Why one star? No Table of Contents, no page numbers, no book name at the top of the page. How the heck do you find what you're looking for? Say what? Say you want to read the gospel of John. Figure it will take 10 minutes to find the first chapter, if you can find it at all. You'll probably have to have a print version by your side because there is no way to tell what book you're in or what chapter you're looking at in this Kindle version.  Pretty useless, unless you intent to read from page 1 until the end, like you would read a novel.
Too many contradictions. People believe what they want and ignore the rest.
I purchased the Kindle version of this self-described New King James Bible and it isn't the NKJV. Psalm 83:18 still contains the name JEHOVAH instead of LORD as the real NKJV does, 1 Cor. 13:13 contains "charity" where the real NKJV has "love", etc... I'm disappointed but I only wasted $2.99 so I will survive the experience.
The one star is not a content issue.  I made the purchase to get a KJV that would be easy to navigate.  This Bible on Kindle is anything but.  The "Table of Contents" at the beginning is in pale letters and not accessible.  It is necessary to touch "Cover" and then page over three pages to where contents begin.  Once there you must page through the entire content to get to what you want.  If you accidentally hit a chapter number as you are navigating, it is necessary to go back to "Cover" and start all over.  I think probably all the five star reviews are for the print edition.  Kindle version is not a good buy.
THIS IS NOT THE 1611 Version which is how Amazon listed the item.
I was buying this book for an 11 year old.  Thought I was getting a copy of the original book.  Was disappointed to see that it was a shortened version and was more like a storybook suitable for a much younger child.  The book was returned.
I did not order this
I am very unhappy with the purchase. I cannot easily navigate through the bible to find needed scriptures. I wanted to use it for Bible study but am unable to use it for anything ---Wasted money on purchase.
Potential reader be warned: this is in all essentials Catriona. There are no alterations to chapter plan and a few tweaks in the content which neither add nor subtract from the original text. A lengthy introduction by the compiler might be of interest if you know nothing of RLS or Scotland. A glossary of scots vocabulary should you need it. It's Catriona.
Good luck reading this Bible ..As the print is so small  i sent it back, Was not even gonna try to sit down with it. Because ya just about need a Micro scope to read it.lol i was very disappointed, i can not ever believe any puplisher would try to print something this small, and plan to market it!
This thesaurus is very complete! It is filled with all today's current slang.  There are 26 threads for the f-word, as well as, graphic sexual terms.  It's unfortunate because the way that this book is set up is very useful, but it is not child appropriate at all.  I was very disappointed.
boring
I did not purchase. My account was hacked and this was purchased that way.
I don't like this book. It was boring and had a slow plot. And It was hard to read because of how the words were spelled and ordered weirdly.
May 2011:  Potential buyers should note that Amazon sells the 6th Edition (almost a decade old now) as the "paperback" edition of the current, 7th International edition.  Not the same book. I only discovered this carelessness on Amazon's part after book was in process and order not able to be altered.  Disappointing -- but you can avoid this: be attentive as you review your order, and you won't get caught with the hassle of sorting out Amazon's tedious mistake.
Great book, but very annoyed that the last few pages were missing from this version.
So frustrating.  Cannot get but maybe 10 % to open.  For Bible study virtually worthless.  I don't understand the problem.  Back to my Holy Bible in hand.
This book has an enormous number of synonyms and antonyms. The problem is that the index is so tiny, it is rare you will find in it the word you want, or even one near to it. So you go on a hunt. Take the word "primacy". The nearest word in the index is "prime". But this is in the section on preparedness.  So perhaps "primary", but this is not in the index. Try perhaps "first". There is much there, but nothing near "primary", and with no assurance that "primacy" will be anywhere nearby. By now you have read hundreds of words and are nowhere near the word you set out to find. I rarely find anything I'm looking for in this book.  My advice is find an indexed thesaurus that has a large index. This one is only 43 pages long in a book over 900 pages.
too much killing in the name of the lord and no respect for women and children.
Deceiving:  I was made to believe it was an English translation of the original text.
Disappointed, not worth .50 cents
Not user friendly
I was looking forward to having the scriptures on my device, yet it keeps freezing.  I've tried multiple times to get this to work.  It will flip a couple pages then stop.  I've even deleted it and re-downloadef.  Still not working.
This book was very dull an  uninteresting for my taste and probably for most people's taste. It moves in a very slow pace and doesn't have  much excitement included.
Did not catch my attention and the "old world" vocabulary was distracting. Not my thing when I want to be entertained. My loss for not being more open minded.
too difficult to find table of contents
I suppose Kidnapped, which was written to be an adventure story for young boys, may have seemed very exciting and adventurous at the time it was originally published.  However, in spite of my love of the classics I just couldn't finish this one.  I managed to make it through 5 of the 7 CDs and then gave up.  The story starts out well enough, with David Balfour's journey to his uncle's house, the weirdness he encounters there, and his subsequent "kidnapping" and transport to a ship bound for America.  Even the shipboard mutiny, storm, and shipwreck off the coast of Scotland were interesting.  However, from that point the story descends into political tedium, as David journeys through Scotland, which was at that time engulfed in a lingering political turmoil in the aftermath of the Jacobite rebellion.  At some point I realized I had completely lost track -- and interest -- in what was going on, and quit listening.  Michael Page is an excellent narrator -- he did a wonderful job on The Scarlet Pimpernel, for instance.  But even his skilled narration couldn't rescue this one.
This book was so boring...I could not finished reading it. I got as far as the character being on the ship and being very ill and was starting to recover. I just could not take anymore, I was done.
Very disappointed as the book that i received was not New as it was advertised, and over priced for the quality it supposedly was described! So i sent it back. Very disappointing.
The book arrived with a thick, black magic marker drawn across the bottom of the pages. Often a dark smear ran up into various pages. Though I am to receive a refund, I was left without the book I wanted for my grandson's birthday. Extremely disappointing.
Problem with protestant Bibles is that the so called reformers eliminated large parts of the Bible as those sections contain passages which do not agree with their new doctrines. Council of Chalcedon about 382 A.D.decided what books of the Bible were divinely inspired only to be negated by reformers in 1500s who singularly eliminated all or parts of the Bible they did not like. Only Catholic Bibles have the full Bible.
There is no table of contents in the Kindle version. The book has table of content pages at the beginning, but the chapter headings DON'T LINK TO THE CHAPTERS. Impossible to  navigate.
F-in garbage. Whatever I down loaded after paying for it was only the Old Testament. Could not get a refund. No search capability. No index, no table of conten. Nothing. Scroll only crap. Typical Amazon.
Do not be deceived this is not the original 1611 version. This version is the revised version of 1769 of Dr. Benjamin Blayney.
I ordered the version that was illustrated by N. C. Wyeth and got a book with no illustrations.
This book is an abridged version of the classic.  However, this was not known to us until we received it.  Since this was not what we wanted we had to return it and Amazon charged us for the shipping.  Rip Off!  We've lost faith in Amazon.
This audio presentation by David Rintoul is extremely dull, boring and bland.  It is so uninspiring that my son and I could not finish it.  There are lots of excellent audio books out there but this is definitely not one of them.  DO NOT BUY IT!
Kidnapped by RL Stevenson was the worst book I have ever read. I was lost the entire time. The author did not make clear the setting,the plot or anything else in this book. I have never had trouble understanding olde  English language but I could not read this book because of it. I have yet  to see a book that I did not enjoy besides this one. A classic? Dont think  so.....
Hard to read, I was led to get this Bible however, I think I was misled. I do enjoy reading my NKJV Bible.
no plot
I ordered a large print King James Bible and I got  a standard print NIV Bible. I am very dissatisfied.
Impossible to navigate on Kindle.
We got this for a last-minute photo shoot prop but had to return it and go without.  The book was totally damaged, the peeling cover was practically dangling from the rest of the pages.  Needless to say, that photo is not an accurate representation of the product I received and I cannot imagine someone being able to actually take it to church or read from it regularly without it totally disintegrating.
Don't buy this book it's missing whole chapters, I didn't realize it until I began to tap the cheaters.
The King James Bible is heresy. It omits 7 books from the original 73 book canon. It's very sad that most families read the KJV and don't realize it's missing books! Some reccomended Bibles that contain all 73 books are the Douay-Rheims, New American Standard. The best place for the KJV is in a fireplace!
This book was ordered by someone else using my Kindle ID .  Kindle credited my account but it continues to show up in my history.  Really?  I can't believe anyone but a sneaky thief with an IQ under 70 would even consider this novel just by the title and cover alone.  My only hope is that somehow that cretin gets access to this review and realizes they are too stupid to own a book and should stick to comics.
would love to review it but you never sent it to me.
This is one of the worst translations to English I have ever read.  It is so bad I couldn't even finish it.  I tried to read it but stopped after 3 chapters.  In some places it looks like the translator did a literal translation to English rather than adapting the story.  Some phrases used would never be used in the context in which they appear. I do not recommend this book.
This particular translation was pretty poor overall. However, I did really enjoy the unicorn and the description of bats as birds. I didn't realize unicorns were real and always thought bats were mammals. In this regard, it's very educational. The twist at the end was pretty strange, I'm guessing that guy John found the same kind of mushrooms Moses and Muhammad did.
Fake bible... this is not the real King James Bible. All the words are twisted around. I bought a King James Version by a different author and it matched up precisely with the actual scriptures. This book is not the real King James Bible.
The letters are entirely too small and the paper so thin that turning the pages always comes with the concern of tearing them.
Middle Eastern religion that takes over Europe.
This bible has a strong toxic rubbery/petroleum smell coming from the cover and the pages. I tossed it in the garbage.
Terrible book. Full of contradictions and unsubstantiated claims. Just awful.
Poorly organized
Viewing in browser this book is near useless.  Searching for ma1 or matthew1 or Matthew 1 does not get first chapter or Matthew.  Nothing that works in Bibletime or Xiphos programs seems to work with this kindle book.  Searching for gets "Matthew 11" as result but clicking it gets a list of numbers with abbreviated verse references, not 11th chapter of Matthew. We would use this to daily read aloud 1 or 2 chapters of OT, 1 or 2 chapters of NT, 1 chapter of Proverbs & 5 of Psalms, but I find no way to do so.  Constantly seeing a location number on screen is of no value.  "Now at location 123543" is good for who or what? I could install kindle program in a VM but it has been only useful for novels, not for searching or jumping to a location by title such as Leviticus 19.
Waste of time
This book was a complete waste of money...my school won't buy it back. The person who sold it on here said there was only minor damage on the cover...when the whole damn thing is taped on!
The Grimm Brothers wrote better fairy tales. What's worse is that they are trying to claim this is nonfiction!
to small
Full of nonsense
downloaded the book to my phone kindle and then put it on my sons computer. After 5 hours of this process the book was encrypted and he is not able to use it. Very disappointing for the amount of money this book costs.
This book is trash. Overpriced garbage. The sections that explain the material make the concepts seem reasonable. Then the authors throw the nasty problems at you. Its like the professor showing you Clifford the Big Red Dog and then the homework is from War and Peace. Entirely two different planets. The authors skip steps, don't show some examples entirely, and do a poor job of explaining anything. To make things worse, they skipped over and glossed over Identities entirely, there are no answers in the back of the book for those sections to guide you along, and the solutions manual is yet another overpriced piece of crap they want you to buy. The college I go to forced this horrible, sorry excuse of a textbook on its students. This book's only purpose in life is to create more math haters. And it does its job well. I hate math more than ever. So professors of the world, if you want your students to despise math more than ever, and do your part to weed out Engineering and MBAs, this is the book for you. Guaranteed to dramatically shrink the population of STEM majors dramatically.
This book makes no sense and sucks at teaching trigonometry. My high school book was so much better!
This is probably the most horrible book I've ever read in my lifetime. I do not recommend it at all
Old, abused, smell like cigarettes, not clean. I'm not using it. It shouldn't been offered for rent. I ended up purchasing online book code.
from the hundreds of missing pages. To the sloppy uneducated re-wording of original text. Today's holy (new King James) version bible is anything from original. completely re written and munipulated to a new age false belief system the new King James Bible is a fake!  and should be recalled for obvious nursery rhyme fake scriptures and new made up passages that were never in the original bible. What is this garbage!!!!!
i ordered brand-new textbook to get access cord and textbook for my summer session, but they sent me an old, page-folded, of course no access cord used textbook. they took long time to deliver this textbook and like i said i got wrong detail textbook. so i couldn't finish alot of my homework. i trusted to buy many things at amazon, but i disappointed very much.
Was not what wanted! Bought  different one
Did not like this one it did not have text to speech that is what I wanted. I should not have got this one
Needed a more English version
Actually, I'd love it... if there was a way to navigate to whichever bible verse or section I'd want to hear.  There's an app related to this that seems to do the job but you have to re-purchase the audio.  Come on man.  As it is, you have 17 identical looking subheadings and no way to look up anything in particular.  The audio presentation is really nice though.
I have read the Bible from Genesis to Chronicles.  The book is full of stories about animal sacrifices and mass murders either done by God or ordered by the "Lord.". I find nothing holy in the book that was written by ancient scribes who knew nothing  about the world and the universe.  It should be sold with fiction books because there is no truth in it!
I have no issues with the print version. I bought the Kindle version to match our pew bibles and page numbering is broken. The Kindle version shows over 10,000 pages. If fixed, 5 stars.
Fiction presented as fact - written by people who thought the Earth was flat.
What I received was in no way the revised standard version  it was a CSV whatever that is and was not a leather cover
The one star is for the technical issue of the Kindle version wherein one can be able to read it till the intro then it freezes up. Had to request for a refund which Amazon handled wonderfully.
This came in just now and I was so disappointed with the quality that I felt it was necessary to leave a review. Not only are several hundreds of pages stuck together but it looks and feels like this product was printed on tissue paper.
I understand having external inconsistencies, but why are there so many internal inconsistencies? If this was listed as comedy I'd be giving it 5 stars, but since it is not comedy I think the writer might have some serious issues. Please, better editing and more sources.
Very cheap and thin papered cover.  Came in torn.
Finally a ground breaking horror story!!! (SPOILERS!!!)  This plot is high level, if in desperate, desperate need of editing, but don't let that and the 80+ pages of genealogy stop you. Imagine a omnipotent being, who's nickname is "The lord" I will dub the "Demon Lord" creating a entire world filled with sentient creatures, proceeds to call them his "children" only to select out his favorite faction, apparently at random, and then force them to attempt to kill their way through the rest, in the ultimate survival game. Personally I imagined him voiced by Morgan Freeman, it makes his commandments ring true and well intentioned, his later betrayals all the more shocking.  A brutal game played over thousands of years, with the losers and the weak dropped into the Demon Lords specially created hell zone, to get tortured for a eternity. The carrot to the hell zones stick, is what I like to call the "pleasure cube" it's a 5 mile square, gold and jewel incrusted cube, that floats high in the stratosphere and is designed as a kind of pleasure resort for the Demon Lords elite followers.  It's blatantly obvious to the reader that the Demon Lord is the true administrator of the hell zone even though he does a good cop, bad cop routine and places the blame on his second in command who he appointed to administrate it. After all he's omnipotent and all of his many flying legions were created by him personally with preprogrammed loyalty, yes he has flying legions of bird demon slave warriors, and this includes his second in command.  The true horror will only dawn on you once you realize that there is no true path to survival, even for those who have been following his commands faithfully for generations and no one will ever make it into the "pleasure cube" the Demon Lords commandments are extremely contradictory and include self mutilation, starvation, and fatal self poisoning in order to prove your loyalty.  There is no good ending in this one. While the book leaves you hanging right before the end it's already foretold in great detail how the Demon Lords second in command will one day MAYBE TODAY! Ride out with his horror legions and massacre humanity down to the last infant. Thus dragging down to the hell zone everyone who doesn't submit to the Demon Lord. Because death is only the start of the torture. It's only a question of when it starts.  I question whether it is actually a insightful simulation of what may be one of the ways in which a person capable of creating a virtual world completely under their control would pass their time. Well, if they were horribly twisted and enjoyed nothing more than seeing the light die in their "children's" eyes as they torture them for eternity.  What I don't understand is why it isn't tagged science fiction? Fix please!!! And if you are looking for a editor msg me!  (I will change my rating to 3.5 once the genealogy is removed and 5 once the plot holes are fixed and it's edited)  Great horror, I can't wait for the sequel!  Btw I assume the Demon Lords true firm will start to be revealed in book 2 and I've included a a sample image of my suggestion. I like this artist a lot and feel he could do a great job.
Not what I expected...can barely understand the print...pages..too fine.
when I try to use the Bible it would go to what I'm reading and it goes back off the Bible. It would just close
Pages are torn and taped together.  A real waste of money, would not do this again.  I am going to try to return it.
Saw meets Marquis de Sade. With a writing style worse than any of the garbage James Patterson has ever produced.
Wow - this book seems like it was written back when no one was educated.  It is totally nonsensical.  There are so many contradictions.  Where was the editor??  This seems like it was written for a cult following.  The stories are completely unbelievable - but the authors are trying to push them on people as if they are true!  By far the worst book I have ever read - wish I could give it 0 stars.
Some of the writing is beautiful and poetic, but I was quite disappointed with most of the content.  The scientific claims do not seem to be at all supported by any mainstream science.  When there are claims made of anything historical, there are no sources cited, nor does there seem to be any independent verification of whether or not these proposed 'truths' are factual at all.  When it comes to truths about morality and well-being, pass this one by and go with something less rape-y.
It is not a literal translation of accuracy
I thought I was getting a large print bible. All of the ones I looked up was large print. I am legally blind and I can not read this one
The pictures are appalling on my Kindle,  The text is of course worth a dozen galaxies.
I wouldn't consider this to be giant print.
Of course the Word of God is always 5 stars, but this Bible left so much to be desired.  The cover is just awful and so, so cheap. It arrived with cover damage and within a day began to come apart.  I purchased this item for my son who needs large print to read, and he was so excited to finally have God's Word in a manageable size. This made the cheap construction even more upsetting to me.  I missed the return window, so I guess it will be our backup Bible. I ended up replacing this one with a higher quality one for my son.
Worst book ever. Awful ending. Not enough data to back anything up. What's up with this son also being his own dad? None of this makes any sense! Seems like cultish material... If someone took any if this literally I would expect loads of bad behavior as a result.
Just following my wise grandmother's advice.  If you can't say anything good, don't say anything.
This book was the worse example of repetition as if the writer could not remember what was written from chapter to chapter. Getting rid of the excessive repetition would have at least diminished the volume of the book. In addition to that, the entire premise of the book is centered around the 2 rapes of the main character and the fact that she could rationalize away the reasons for the rapes as well as establish a life with them both. Very, very disappointing.
It's not romantic to be raped. You will not fall in love with your attacker; they will not marry you and shower you with riches. I first read this book 30 years ago and I am horrified at the contents. I didn't know and I certainly didn't understand how detrimental this portrayal of women and "love" is... I'm all for fantasy but lets not glorify rape.
Very disappointed, as the center column was not as advertised!
I would like to return it. It has too small a print and not durable enough. Please send a return label so I can return it to you. Thanks  Clara Ann Johnson
The book was supposed to be in good condition, but a square was cut out of the first page.
Reading these reviews, I'm heartened to see I'm not the only one who found this book to be unreadable.  I really wanted to like this book, but I gave up about a third of the way through, as I couldn't make heads or tails of it.  The "authentic" language and nautical terminology is at times so dense and confusing you wonder if he's even speaking English.  If you're familiar with sailing terminology it might not be as much of a problem.  Don't get me wrong, I love historical novels and sea yarns but I would at least like to be able to UNDERSTAND what he's saying.
I had to throw it out it was so bad.  Poorly written.  Impossible to believe that a 'god' would write so many contradictions and explainations about the earth and humans that have been proven wrong (example, covering yourself in bird droppings and standing in a river does not cure you of disease).  There are thousands of examples like this; at first it was funny, but then you realize, people believe this stuff.
I'm not into Zombie stories but different strokes for different folks.
I didn't like the bible because the cover is very thin and the words are different from the original King James version.  When the Pastor read a certain verse from the King James version he's saying thy and shall and those words are nowhere in this bible. I  don't like it.
This Bible does not have the books of the Bible printed on the top of the pages. Therefore it is difficult to find which book you're looking for. The book titles are listed once in bold at the beginning of that book, within the given text. (Sometimes middle, end or top of page) One star because no matter what the format God's Word is good.
Great book, my problem is with the kindle edition, not only is it abridged, but: Text-to-Speech: Not enabled  I expect to be able to listen to my books in the car or at the gym, as well as reading them on the couch. Nearly every book has this feature enabled so I am always surprised when I find one that does not. The author passed on nearly two decades ago so this is just a greed play by whoever is publishing this now.
this seemed like a great book when i saw clips of the movie but the language was so dated and the pace so slow i dropped it
Not enough rape and murder for my taste.  Received this as a gift at my church pegging party. Man I was disappointed.
This book actually has some good advice in it on how to live your life. Faith by definition means to believe in something with no evidence whatsoever. Almost every instance of someone being faithful in this book gets them screwed over. So the moral of the story is sound, don't have faith. I still wouldn't recommend it though, lots of incest...its like an early version of ancestry.com and christianmingle.com, smashed together.
NO Hardcover, NOT new at all, holes and cuts on covers, completely time and money wasting.  AVOID the book and the cheating seller
This kjv has been revised one to many times . I need  it to be the original  I have had this bible for a while and I noticed changes. Which are completely wrong
*SPOILER ALERT* Jesus dies.
I have never before read a book that so completely disagreed with it self.  This book promotes rape and slavery, so a couple trigger warning there.
It reads like bad fan fiction where the writer isn't sure what they are a fan of!
It started off ok. The world was created, things were awesome, etc. But I got confused pretty quickly. Wasn't this God person supposed to be the good guy?  He basically got super mad every time people didn't love him enough and then punished them.  The latter third of the book was a bad retcon.  They bring in this Jesus guy who is God's son and is God but not God the father. Oh and then there's a Holy Spirit who is also God.  There must have been a writers strike when this part of the story was written because it makes no sense.  In the end you either love Jesus and go to heaven or end up in a lake of fire. This book gives 1984 a run for its money when it comes to a dystopian future, only 1984 was well written.
I was looking for good moral advice and something uplifting, what I got was contradicting creation stories, and a bunch of weird sadistic stuff. It all ended with a dream sequence... a really weird  one.
A whole lot of bad advice.
statistics: god kills 2.8 million. satan kills 10 (per god's instructions)  and god is the hero?  i am scheduling to have a cold one with satan in the bar room hosted by  noah lugeons, adam reakes, wyatt mathers, in a nice place without ken ham, joel osteen, pat robertson, the poop, ted haggard, you get it, no pedophile priests either!
Ezekiel 23/20. There she lusted after her lovers, whose genitals were like those of donkeys and whose emissions were like horses. PURE FILTH.
worst mythology book ever...
i found the book of Leviticus to be very helpful in my job as the supervisor at the animal sacrifice/leprosy screening plant.
I enjoyed this fanciful story centered around Kings, Queens, Knights and Peasants. I even found some the more mythical characters, Dragons, Giants, Witches etc to be pretty compelling too; however, after the main character John Snow gets Martyred by his own allies I found my self without a protagonist left to root for. Good story, hopefully next book will be better. Also the part about the talking donkey seemed ridiculous. Hopefully that character won't make a return in future storylines.
Promotes violence, incest, human sacrifice and child abuse, and yet most of it is incredibly boring.
I used to live by this book but the hatred of women left me believing I deserved the violent treatment I received. Ditch this book and realize that woman are equal.
Didn't get through the book as I didn't like all the old English way of speaking.  Some might like it.
The KJV falls in with Tolstoy's War and Peace as being LBHF. Long Boring Historical Fiction. Thank you Patron
Poor character development, needless repetition, and a cliche ending.
Dry and repetitive.  I did enjoy the talking donkey and sword-mouth Jesus and would like more of that in Volume 2.
1 star, would not read again.
I'm not sure how this can even be considered a book. It's a collection of poorly translated scrolls found in a cave. I honestly don't get what all the fuss is about.
a bit confusing and contradictory at times. I mean the main character was supposed to create everyone but then they have to cut the end of their penis off?? shouldn't he just created it that way? also he's really too concerned where they put that thing after they lop the tip off. unless its a girl who doesn't want it, then that's o.k as long as the guy pays the girls father some money.
As others mentioned, I had previously read the printed version and was terribly disappointed in finding missing material, especially the brain surgery that exemplifies the doctor's genius. When kindle came out with an update I was so hoping that the commissions had been rectified. Unfortunately they have not. This kindle edition ought to be clearly marked as ABRIDGED. I would very much like my money back Amazon. Shame on you for your sloppy work.
The first half was full of death, destruction, warfare, mauling, prostitution, torture, rape, slavery, and incest. A little slow at times with all the law-giving and the who-begat-who. But not a bad start. (And definitely NOT for children!) In the second half, the story slows down and much of the story conflict with itself with each chapter conflicting with itself in the details. But then the end picks up again with a crazy acid-trip finale. It's a bit out of place with the rest of the story.
This is the book for those who want to know if you are allowed to beat your slaves to death. (Spoiler alert: yes, you are.)
Kind of a dry read.  Repetitive and contradicts itself.  A lot.  Feels like the author is very new to the art. Could try harder.  C-. Saved by the mild soft porn and sadism aspects (of that's a thing you're into)
The story heavily relies on deus ex machina, and is full of killing and self mutilation. NOT FOR CHILDREN!
Look I get it. I do.  You're writing your epic, your master-work, the thing that will outlive your petty mortal existence, so you want it to punch hard. But here's the thing: killing off everyone in the first act, bar one family, is just lazy writing.  Sure, it provides motivation for later characters. But come on, it's so over the top that my suspension of disbelief snapped like so much gopher wood in high seas.  I mean, we're supposed to believe that this monster, one who's willing to let billions of animal die in screaming terror because of things *people* did, has a change of heart in act two?  That he can become loving and just after that?  No, it strains credibility past all reason.  Bad book, bad morals, would not recommend.
A handy moral guide if you happen to be confused subjects like, slavery, genocide, and sexuality.  Then followed by the almost clever tale of a wandering psychopath and his merry band of followers.  If you're looking for long and boring book that reads like it was written by a group of 1st graders out to recess, then you're in luck because this is your book!
Purchased for my mother specifically because it was described as GIANT PRINT.  If you need a bible in giant print, don't buy this one.  Slightly bigger print than average, at best.  Very disappointed.
You can get this book for free in any hotel room. Also they made a Movie Spoiler the guy dies in the end
There's so many good stories in this book!!!! Like the one where the gang of people killed that guy for picking up sticks on the Sabbath. That was a classic! Or, where Moses went to talk to god, by himself, and God gave him like 613 laws that were all very moral. Some of which included beating your slaves, almost till you kill them, but make sure you don't go all the way because its your property! DUH... Ohhh and you shouldn't wear two different fabrics, that's a good rule to live by.  I really like how this book is dead on with the scientific observations that humanity has made also. Its really accurate on the age of the earth, if you take the genealogy that traces back to Adam and Eve, you get right around 6000 years. Neil deGrasse Tyson made it pretty clear in Cosmos that this is highly accurate. If you need more reading material that supports the "young earth" that the bible so clearly makes note of, I highly recommend Kent Hovinds work. He's got lots of power points that back up the stuff, he spent like 10 years in a room making them.  It explains why men get circumcised with a great story where Abraham at a ripe age of 99 had the procedure done to make a convenant with God. Then there's this other story where some guy David had to bring back 200 foreskins of the Philistines to the King Saul, as payment for his daughter. That must have been a very bloody mess, i can't even imagine. I wonder what Saul did with all those foreskins?  In conclusion, this is just a overall great book!! I didn't even mention that it predicts the future! Like we're all going to get bar-codes on our foreheads so we can buy stuff, that's way more convenient than Apple Pay. There's going to also be a magical rapture, where if you believe really hard that all this book is true, you get whisked away to heaven and all you leave behind is a pile a clothes (neatly folded).  So please buy this book, make sure you go to church every Sunday, and try to convert all the people you see with little Chick tracts that are also very accurate.
So I have read 328 pages of this book, and maybe, just maybe, once I have read every other book that has ever been written, will I consider returning to Master and Commander to read the remaining 131 pages. How is it even possible that people enjoyed this book enough to read the 20 or so other books in this series? "Best historical fiction ever written"? Really? Historical fiction as a genre has to suck pretty hard for O'Brian to be considered one of the best.  O'Brian's prose style and plot lines are as ponderous as the ships he describes.
This book is quite messy, and the protagonists seem evil, egoistic and delusional. The last chapter is slightly entertaining though.
Kinda preachy, like Ziggy comics.
I was so excited to read this book because I heard it was the most popular book in the world.  Plus, I see it at every hotel.  I always mean to read it while staying at a hotel but I'm usually traveling for work so I am away from the wife and kid. So with that being said, I get a lot of free time to take care of myself so I really never got around to reading it, until recently.  I was thoroughly unimpressed.  The characters are all over the map. The first part was quite scary. Genocide, rape, murder, xenophobia, etc. Not exactly a children's book, plus if I wanted a horror/thriller, I'd go with Stephen King as he is much better writer and his characters make a lot more sense.  The second part was strange. I mean the characters kept describing this guy names Jesus but it was strange because none of the stories matched up at all, plus it was extremely repetitive and boring.  Plus, this Jesus guy dies in the end.  Why?  I was hoping that he would get married, have kids, then leave his wife for his gay lover.
Very strange book. The authors have no problem dishing out the violence, and that IS entertaining. I mean there's a ton of murder, rape, slavery etc, but what's up with the begets??? If they were trying to spice up this insanely violent genocidal book with a little erotica, they did it wrong. That's what they were going for right? I mean, who wants to read a fictional genealogy book?  Don't waste your money!
I just don't get the appeal of this book. The whole thing was painfully repetitive, had more plot holes than a block of Swiss cheese, and contained a ton of digressions and tangents that went nowhere. The Jesus character was interesting, a good case study into a fanatical (but clearly charismatic) cult leader. But honestly the whole thing read like a bunch of disjointed myths and fantasies compiled from random places around the Middle East thousands of years ago by bronze age peasants who had no idea how the world worked but enjoyed killing stuff. I guess it's a good guide on how not to be moral I guess.
I was sold this as the only book you need for life, and the best moral guidance. It's not much use for life  - nothing of how to build a house, or grow crops, and I suspect if you built a boat like that it would sink. As for moral guidance, God's answer to any problem is kill. Too much sin in the world? Kill everything. Too much going on in Sodom? Send in the divine napalm. Want to get the Israelites out of Egypt? Kill all the first-born in Egypt.  Israelites worshiping a golden calf? Kill 3,000. It's about this time that God gives Moses a lot of laws on how to worship him correctly - mostly by killing animals - and if they get is wrong the punishment is death. Aaron and his sons burn the wrong incense, so God burns them to death. Promised land already inhabited? Kill both man and woman, young and old, and ox, and sheep, and ass, with the edge of the sword. And burn anything left.  It would have been nice if John 3:16 said "For God so loved the world that he forgave the world without another drop of blood being shed".
This has to be the worst written book I've ever read. So obviously made up and written in a way to profit the author.
This book is loaded with killing, raping, slaving, genocide and misogyny, all condoned & demanded by a supposedly all loving god. If it wasn't made up, it would be despicable. Unfortunately, the fact that people believe that it is a "good book" is pretty bad too.
One of the most violent, sexist, morally bankrupt and, quite frankly, silly things I have ever read. I challenge you to read it all without despairing for mankind. If you must have it for research purposes be sure to keep it away from children and the easily provoked. It has inspired much violence over the years and should be handled with care. On a more positive note, some bits are really funny .
Conflicting stories, some weird ancient dialect (thoroughly unreadable), and worst moral compass guidelines.  This is the scariest collection of murder porn ever written. Really, dashing babies against rocks, droning the whole world because the supreme deity make an unforeseen mistake in the creation of man.
This book gave me many a nightmare during my time at Shawshank prison. Although I can't recommend this book to read it does make for a great place to hide a rock hammer. Especially if your warden is a christian because you know that no christian will ever crack this book open.  Andy Dufresne
I've read the entire Aubrey-Maturin series and was buying this book as a gift for someone. My review is not of the story itself, which is one of the masterpieces of historical fiction and maybe the best thing I've ever read. I am quite upset about the quality of the print. It seems like it was printed with fast draft with a small font using toilet paper. Even  in bright light with good eyes it's hard to read. The cover seems to be a regular piece of paper - taking the expression paper-back a little too literally. Surely a piece of cardboard wouldn't have broken the bank. I'm almost embarrassed to give this as a gift. I will be hesitant to buy anything published by Norton again.
I bought this to cleanse my sins of Hatsune Miku but it didn't do anything. 0/10.
In the words of Richard Dawkins: "The God of the Old Testament is arguably the most unpleasant character in all fiction: jealous and proud of it; a petty, unjust, unforgiving control-freak; a vindictive, bloodthirsty ethnic cleanser; a misogynistic, homophobic, racist, infanticidal, genocidal, filicidal, pestilential, megalomaniacal, sadomasochistic, capriciously malevolent bully."
I bought this book because I was told it was full of excellent morals for my child. Now they're genocidal. I do not recommend this at all.
Very wordy and full of stories not related to reagan
The literal representation of insanity displayed in text and advertised as something to base your morality on.  Scary.
On the plus side, the talking snakes & donkeys were kinda cool...
First, as a Christian, I'm offended by the amount of "knowing" going on in this book. Also, this "Jesus" character (if that's his real name) doesn't advocate the second amendment, nor eliminating the death tax. James is certainly no Rand.
Was this some sort of Harry Potter fanficton? When it opened with the talking snake, I thought it was derivative, but it was just a mish-mash of murder, not well written and didn't have enough unicorns or thestrals to be a really decent piece of fantasy.
I cannot recommend this particular translation.  Source material -- the Textus Receptus -- was of poor quality, sectarian concerns were too much a factor in translation (Isaiah 7, for example), language is overly archaic and potentially misleading for people who don't speak 1600s English (some words in play in 1611 meant exactly the opposite of current use).  Overall, there are far better translations in modern English which make use of a greater availability of ancient manuscripts and whose translators have at their disposal an additional 400 years of scholarly work to resolve the differences between manuscripts, and some of these are even largely free of sectarian motivation in translating certain passages.  Give this one a pass and go with something else.  Since I can't give this the zero stars it deserves, I guess it earns the one star through the linguistic artistry.
The quality murdering by the main character is hard to follow. I really loose sense of why he kills. Classics are supposed to fill you with a sense of why, and get you in the head if the killer.  I did however reread the juicy bits about the incest and the two hot chicks getting their father liquored up for hot sexy time after their mom turned to salt. That part was going to get another star, but then the horse faced locust and dragon parts lost me in the end.  All in all a horrible attempt at a civilization story. Ruled by a childish and irrational baby man. Definitely misrepresented by its fan base!!
I grew up very religious and believing in the plan that god had for me. In an attempt to further my understanding of that plan, I sat down to read the bible. I found it abhorrent. It is clearly written by very unintelligent people whom knew nothing of the world  and how it works. The misogyny, bigotry, hypocrisy, and xenophobia of this book is so abundantly blatant, and it causes such widespread misery for so many people in this country, that it would be immoral to not outlaw it.  As such, I am now, happily, an atheist, and I not only firmly in believe LGBTQ+ rights, sexual liberation, racial and gender equality, and fair and polite treatment of all sentient beings on this planet, but I can also back it all up with irrefutable evidence.
This was not the Eli Bosnick story... and i was sad about that...
This book contains equal parts morality, history, and duck billed platypus. Story mostly ripped off from better books such as The Epic of Gelgamesh and The Myth of Mithra. Lookes like it was written by homophobic and misogynistic bronze aged shepherds. I would not recommend this book for educated people, uneducated people, men, women, children, or anyone with any kind of moral compass
If you want a book filled with rape, slavery, genoside, insest, and a god that wants you to worship him to suit his own ego, this is the book for you.
Lacks any mentions of China and Kangaroos. Must be an oversight, please revise for next edition. Also a bit on the heavy side when it come to promoting rape, violence, genocide, murder, and other immoral behaviour.
With so many contradictions (some just 2 paragraphs away from each other on the same page) I do not understand how so many people site this as a 'good book'. This promotes misogyny, slavery, and rape. I have found a better code of ethics (and more cohesive writing) in the Discworld series by Sir Terry Pratchett.  Evil begins when you begin to treat people as things.  Terry Pratchett, I Shall Wear Midnight
Poorly written, boring, minimal character development, and unlikable "protagonist". Would rather read twilight.
Boring
could not even get through it -- so dull
I found this book misleading and immoral. Also, I was shocked by how much of it was just genealogy. Vague and wandering, it offers little by way of a coherent story and often advocates hatred and murder of people who are different.  Most of the stories I remember were all in the Genesis and Exodus. Also, finding out that none of it is in any way true made it a lot less fun to read. If you are looking for a handbook for racism, tribalism, and misogyny, then look no further!
I found this book to be incredibly disappointing. It is utterly disorganized and contradictory, and the writing is prosaic. In Numbers 31:17,18, god tells his people to murder everyone except the virgins to take as sex slaves. Only a depraved person would find this book entertaining, and only an idiot would take it seriously for historical or moral purposes. There is more morality in one episode of South park than there is in this entire book. Don't waste your money. Learn science.
This book ruined my life. I acknowledged its existence when teaching my class, and now I am on death row. The ACLU is out for blood. The only thing that can save me now are the prayers of The Newsboys.
Without a single reference to the evilness of slavery, how does this terrible book become a center of the moral universe?  Of course the passages praising those that bash babies' heads against the rock, a man's daughters' raping him, etc., etc., so we need to keep our expectations MUCH lower.  This is a terrible, terrible, terrible book.  Avoid at all costs
Great horror story, but definitely not for the weak of heart or stomach. A story about an unimaginably evil being that creates the world and populates it with sentient beings for the express purpose of torturing them and inflicting maximum pain. He gloats as he does so. Spoiler alert. The bad guy wins. Prepare to embark on journey of unspeakable violence and mass genocide perpetrated by the most evil being imaginable.
Pathetically self-aggrandizing protagonist (HA!) repugnantly fishes for flattery, yet merely garners indignant contempt from the reader. The only consolation to have in reflecting upon this trash is that it will never be actually read. It's one thing to run an insane scam which no rational person should fall for; it's another to do so based upon a literary tome so unreasonably boring I fell asleep before the first human sacrifice. Our mean, old man neighbor lets us eat the pears off his tree, but this guy, no, no fruit for you. Jeez; what a jerk.
If this book is satire it is great.  However if this is a book you base your life around and base your morals on then it is terrible. Did you know there are lines in here about bashing babies heads against rocks? And the good guy once cursed a fruit tree for not having a piece of fruit for him. And the heroes in the book are actually in favor of slavery. If you are looking for a book with morals in it please choose literally any other book. Like any other one, like go out to your car and get the manual out of the glove compartment there is more morality in that.
I love this book and the series! Having read the entire series years ago, I couldn't wait to dive back into Mr. O'Brian's world again. Unfortunately, the digital copy of this book is incomplete! Large sections are missing. Such a disappointment. If you're looking to read this amazing book for the first time, do yourself a favor and buy the hard copy. Hopefully, this issue can be corrected in the future.
Would have been a 5 star review if Numbers 22:28 was the entire book.
Wow, I can't believe people take this book literally. Even as a story, the plot is meandering and discontinuous. Would not read again.
This book is the worst!
I was disappointed by the title and it's misspelling of the word "Holy". The title should have been "Holey Bible" due to all the plot holes. Though this did point me toward my new fetish of torture porn. Thanks!
I don't know if I want my kids reading this book, the main character hangs out with hookers, and he was a s***ty carpenter.
In was hoping for all the peace,  love,  and marshmallow fluff that I was promised,  but all I got was violence,  genocide, rape, and incest.
After reading this, it is finally clear why Christians do such hateful things - it says to very clearly!  Meh, pass.
I picked up this book because a friend asked me to read it and I have to say, I wasn't a big fan of the main character, this "god" guy; he came off as petty, inconsistent, and insecure.  The author (authors?) Couldn't even keep the tense straight, and wrote in radically different styles throughout. Hell, there was even one point he (I'm assuming) told the same (ish) story four times in a row. I'm not sure if this was a Mozart-style "Variations on a Theme" type thing, but the author failed to pull it off.  One last note, I'm not sure when this was written, but it's a bit to rapey and women-hating for me. At one point a women gets raped to death and cut up into pieces, in a book called Judges (19).  Overall a bit too much for my taste. Not sure why it has over 4 stars...
The content and narrative were the worst thrown-together tripe I've ever encountered, full to the brim with misogyny, it promotes slavery, incest, genocide...I just don't know where to begin. The one redeeming part would have to be the pornographic poem in the middle, but that was barely worth it. And, not only does it contradict itself often, it does so within the first two chapters! As far as the physical item goes, it's not bad.
not even a single picture in the entire book.
Have the CD. I thought this book would be more like the movie and not the usual sloppy crap O'Brian usually writes. If you want great reading of this era, try C.S. Forester. I own the entire collection and re-read it every couple of years.  This O'Brian Master and Commander is half finished and haven't found any of the movie yet. I doubt I will have the patience to slug through this guys self gratification. Nothing but a waste of time and money.
Imagine if the whole Harry Potter series was the story of a young wizard boy reading his results from ancestry dot com aloud, and then Voldemort wins.
Not impressed.
I couldn't finish it. The first few chapters started out interesting, but it soon dissolved into being all about ship duties. The author has great knowledge of ships and sailing back in those days, but with no conflict it's not really a story. All the unfamiliar words for things, such as boat parts, made it even harder reading. Although I really grew to appreciate the Kindle dictionary. If I wanted a text book, I would have bought one. I tried several times to read it, hoping something interesting would happen, but I got to a point where the boredom was too much.
I think I'm the minority on this one but I was never able to finish it, and oh how I tried!  To much naval vernacular I couldn't understand and the characters never developed for me.  I really wanted to like it, but this one missed the mark.  Hopefully you have better luck.  After all, they made a movie out of it and that doesn't happen with unpopular books!
I should have read a sample. I am not interested in heterosexuality. I believe there should have been a warning.
The boat blueprint was insufficient to survive a flood. Also, all I have left are 2 very overweight lions.
In numerous places it is KJV verbatim. It is conviently compared to the NIV which itself is not a literal translation. It will be basic KJV and then jump to translate a verse that can't be justied by any Hebrew or Greek dictionaries I have. The KJ3 by J.P.Green Sr. is a much better translation. Save your money and don't by this slightly altered KJV.
I've waited years for them to update this Kindle Version, to no avail. Just about every error you could imagine has found its way into this book, making it virtually unreadable. I'm not surprised any more to find this problem in self-published books, but to find such low or absent quality in so expensive a Bible is inexcusable, especially when years later they still have failed to justify the outrageous expense for a book whose author said in this very book, "BUY the TRUTH, but DO NOT SELL IT!" Having known the Author of this book since I met Him on December 12, 1971 and having seen Him continuously in my studies of his Scriptures, I'm fairly certain He would be very unhappy with the work of Thomas Nelson or Random House Publishers in this implementation of His Work.
Item still has not showed up yet.
Horrendous book. Literally 90% of material is not explained. How the heck are you supposed to do the problems without an explanation?
This version is missing a chapter.  I am at the end of the semester and now do not have the final chapter before exams!!  This is a disgrace that Amazon would take advantage of college students in this way!!
For an undergrad engineering student who struggles with math, this book feels awful. I had a difficult time learning from it. The book is overly wordy, which clouds its explanation of topics. The formatting is just... dense. It's a strange complaint to make, I know. With the Stewart Calculus book, when stuck on a problem and looking back at the examples for insight, I found my eye was naturally drawn to the important parts. Color, text formatting, and white space helped direct the eye. With this book, it's difficult to do that because it's just uniform. The text is monotonous; color is not used to delineate salient points or equations; examples run together without a horizontal line to separate them or anything; it's all just a monotonous blob of black text that spans several pages. I wind up having to hunt through it to find the relevant parts. It's just not laid out in a user-friendly way. Every other textbook highlights or bolds or underlines or puts a box around important equations or conclusions, but not this book, oh no. User-friendly formatting is verboten, apparently.  The examples address only the simplest of problems which don't help with the problem set. The book expects you to be a genius and connect the dots on your own, which is most unhelpful. I learned more from google, than this textbook.  Although I'm sure it's not as bad as other math books can be, this book feels pretty heavy on formal math symbology and equation-writing. Particularly when the book describes general cases, it's just a jumble of capital letters and lowercase letters and then they add in some Greek letters because why not. While I understand fully that that's how formal math is supposed to be written, it's still very cluttered, and difficult to track. If you're not a math-minded person, or don't enjoy formal math, this book is fairly difficult to read.  The long and short of it is, if you're assigned this book, don't expect to find it particularly enlightening. Buy the cheapest one you can find (or find one for free), and prepare to google your way through the material.
Worst Math textbooks
Horrible book.  The layout on pages is not efficient for learning and concepts are not explained well. Bad for an intro ODE class in my opinion. My professor did not even like it but he had to use it. I had to constantly check other resources online for better understanding.
Easily the worst textbook I have used for a mathematics course. It's like the authors went out of their way to make the examples confusing.
6.5/10 Would not recommend, wouldn't read again. Thought the protagonist was Hispanic
If you need to buy this book for a class, get another book as well. Here are a few reasons you should avoid this book if you can.  1. Definitions: The definitions in this book are not clearly stated. A book that does not have rigorous definitions to start from is not a real math book. Definitions in this book show up as bold words, often in a sentence talking about something else.  2. Theorems: The theorems are not self contained. Theorems often reference equations in other parts of the chapter by their number. Theorems are also used very sparingly. Often entire chapters go by without stating a theorem. Obviously most of this book is not conjecture. It is just poor writing on the authors' part to not back up or clearly state what they are saying.  3. Wordy: Looking up something simple like the Euler algorithm takes 20 minutes. An internet search takes 2. That would be okay if there was more depth provided for that 18 minutes. There wasn't.  4. Price: Right now this book costs over $200. Much more talented expositors on differential equations exist. Their books are often free or cheap.  5. Content: There is simply not enough content in this book to stand alone as an introduction to the subject. The work problems are decent, but it is not Halmos' Linear Algebra Problem Book. Without a good professor one should be wary of what they are missing out on.  *for context I am a math and computer science major*
The book itself was in bad condition. There was so much writing, plenty of the text was unreadable. If I could give 0 stars, I would.
The King James Bible is the only non-copyrighted book of the 15 million books in the Library of Congress, yet Zondervan has copyrighted this book. You can only copyright a book if you change at least 10% of the content of the book. This copyright is a HUGE red flag for me. Plus Zondervan is the publisher of the satanic bible. Per Matthew 7:17-20 and Matthew 12:33, the same tree cannot produce good fruit and evil fruit. I will never buy anything published by Zondervan or its parent Harper Collins. Please pray and do some research before you buy this bible.
Overall:1/10 -TL;DR review  Pros: paper feels nice, cool cover, GREAT exercises at the back of each chapter.  Embarrassingly that's it for pros.  Cons: book is terrible at explaining the simplest things, and often skips steps that the reader wouldn't have thought about.  -  -Full review:  I own about 60+ books and this is probably the worst book I own in my library, second to Advanced Calculus by Widder.  The chapters of this book that were assigned to us are by far the most irritating chapters of a book I've ever had the displeasure of reading. The sections on exact Equations were made way more difficult than they needed to be by skipping countless steps or using new notation that's not known to new students of Differential Equations. Chapter three is somewhat decent when discussing homogenous Differential Equations of order two, but quickly becomes useless again when attempting to teach nonhomogeneous Equations. You get the idea; the rest of the book follows the pattern.  I believe that the main problem with the book is that it offers pages and walls of text before giving a concrete example instead of offering a theorem and walking you through an example. Towards the end of the semester I had a stack of 6 other DE books, as I struggled with a terrible Russian professor and this pathetic excuse of a book.  I've yet to find a decent DE book that covers Eigenvalues and matrices (otherwise it would be Tenenbaum's DE'S), but "Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems" by Powers is good, better than this 'book'. -
Book was described as used good. There was markings on almost all pages. There were 2 pages ripped out, folded, and placed inside the back cover. Book was returned.
Obscure. Author is only concerned about his book deal, not your learning experience.
The pages had water damage, highlighted so much that I can't follow along, and the binding is damaged. By far the worst decision I've made to save a couple dollars
The example problems in this book are awful. You will end up using Khan Academy or various other online resources.  The homework problems are good, but don't expect to learn much from the book itself.
Taking time to watch a YouTube Video is much worthy to read this book
This totally ripped off Dragon Ball Z. Goku died for your sins
The author BahBoyce and DipPrima are absolutely should be taken to behind the shed and flogged with barbed wire.  Their writing method leaves much to be desired. Even right at the beginning, one may wonder what the he double hockey stick is this garbage writing.  It may be geared for genius who may have ESP that can read the authors' mind which is much less than 5% of the college student population!  10th edition is absolutely a torture!  Tell you what, I will save this book since it is only good for just ONE only for ONE thing - starting campfires!  Most useless!  MIT openware, Khan Academy, Commutant (all are Youtube) are much better.  Where is that zero stars????
My book smells. It smells moldy and I don't even want to open it because it makes everywhere I go smell like mold.
It as if this book was written by an mathematical history professor as it just TALKS about DE rather than showing clearly defined equations, solutions, and examples. It wastes entirely too much space on mathematical historical points, and runs off into totally useless and abstract tangents. Just know if this book is required, you absolutely will need something else. I found an old Edwards and Penny version and it was far far far better. That, youtube, and google will get you through, so just put this book on a shelf somewhere and pretend to use it, and for the love of God don't buy it for a lifetime reference book!  Come to think of it, this so far is the worst book I've come across in all of my math classes.
I did not receive the item which was advertised (a hardcover copy of the textbook). Instead, I received a rather useless and paperback student solution manual. I am not only upset about the waste of money, but of time spent waiting for this book to arrive, as I am already quite behind in this class.
Ruined my family.
More ramblings from people who think they are important and just want to put others below them. Do this don't do that bla, bla, bla! If you are a balanced person who is decent you should not need fear to tell you how to live.
A collection of incoherent ramblings that often seem to end in genocide.  Clearly the work of a deranged and infantile mind.  Steer clear.
Very abstract, and does not work example problems completely.  Spent most of my time learning the material on the net.
Wow, this book was nearly worthless.  I found myself flipping back and forth trying to find examples that more closely mirrored what I was actually working on.  After a couple days with the book I just resorted to Google.  Unless it's required, skip this text.
Save yourself a few hundred bucks and buy the 9th edition used for $15. I have seen the 10th edition and the material is 97% the same - they didn't even change the numbers in the problems.  Now, the book "feels" closer to a science book than a math book. That is, definitions and equations are embedded in blocks of text as opposed to being neatly presented in a table. The techniques are taught by example with very little explanation. The worst part is that they will skip the manual computations and jump straight to Maple, not very helpful for exams! It would be infuriating if this text was used for self study. Thankfully, there is a ton of differential equation material out there.
Not user friendly
Clearly, I must not be the intended audience for this text. This textbook is required for a Calculus 4 class that I am currently taking. The author does well in providing proofs, but fails (for me at least) to clearly point out the important concepts to take away from each reading. So far I've found myself able to follow along with the proofs and examples that the author provides, but generally unable to actually solve many problems myself after reading. I have never had trouble with calculus, so I eventually searched for supplemental resource material online. I was able to easily find other free material online and now I am actually learning the concepts and my required study time is about 1/4 of what it was when I was reading this text.
Worst textbook every but its the one we use in the course. Luckily it was cheap. If you aren't required to get the book then find a better resource
165 pages missing, from John 12 to Romans 7
This textbook does not simplify any of the material. Luckily I had a great teacher who could explain the concepts really well. However, if you need to teach yourself Differential Equations this book would be terrible. The book does not show the essential steps to answering a problem. Instead it is needlessly verbose and confusing. I only used the book to do my homework problems and check my answers... thats it.  To summarize: This book cannot explain anything. Look elsewhere!
just leaving this review to add to the overall score. read the rest of the negative reviews for why i gave this 1 star
Had use Boyce in undergrad work and hated it, didn't learn much. Struggling trying to understand Boyces' Diff Eqns? Do yourself a favor and get KA Stroud book.
as of my title, This book is so boring. I came to know math is not always fun to solve when use this book. I believed there are better way to teach dif. Eq. and there are better book. examples are limited, very hard to learn using this book.
I just received this book not 5 minutes ago. I open it up and the binding is upside down and backwards. For $158 you would think there would be some quality control. Seriously? What the hell?
To be honest,  Calculus is NOT my favorite part of math; but I've always managed to understand it fairly well. However, I could not follow what was going on in this book. The only reason I passed my class was because of the notes I took in class and help I found online. Since choosing Mathematics as my major, this is the first math book I am selling!
Both the text of this book and the examples are completely unclear to anyone who doesn't already understand how to solve the problems.  This makes the book worthless, because I wouldn't be reading it if I already understood everything.  Also, there is a significant disconnect between the examples and the exercises.  For instance, in one chapter all the examples are of scientific applications, while all many of the exercises are pure, abstract math.  As a science major (who actually needs to know differential equations) the abstract exercises make no sense without at least a little explanation, and this book provides none.  Considering the price, avoid buying this book at all costs.  If you need this for a class, find the 9th edition online as a pdf (it's essentially the same as the 10th edition).  If you look for 30 min, you can find it on a torrent site or whatnot.
I was forced to buy this book for an introductory differential equations class. If there is any way you are able to avoid getting this, I would do it. The explanations are non-existent, the notation is inconsistent, and there is no logical flow to the book. In just the second  chapter, for example, there is an introduction to integrating factors that involves a derivation of a general equation. From there we are told that we can't actually solve it until 3 examples later, when the authors decide to revisit it after other examples.  They interchange y' with dy/dt with d/dt(y), often during the same example, and even during the same step, though the purpose is not to relate the different notations to each other. Unnecessarily confusing during the introductory examples.  There are no explanations of steps in how they derive their solutions, leaving everything to the reader to figure out. Hopefully you have a good teacher who is able to sit by your side and walk you through recognition of the product rule applied in reverse, for example.  This is the first review I've ever written about a textbook. But this book is just that horrible, I couldn't in good conscience stay silent.
I had previously read this book in paperback and enjoyed it immensely - five stars worth.  If you are looking for non-stop action in a steampunk setting, this is not the book for you.  If you enjoy character development (these are the most realistic characters I have ever encountered!) and a story that really brings you to the time and place you are reading about (and yes, that means you have to have authentic terms and language) then you will love this book.  Having said that, don't get the Kindle edition until they have solved the problems of accidental abridgement.  I am in chapter 7 and have already noticed at least three big sections missing.  One of my favorite scenes, the trepanning of the gunner's mate by Stephen is completely missing.  I went back and re-read the chapter twice, thinking I had nodded off and missed it, but it just is not there.  In two other places, just before and during the attack on the small harbor on the Spanish coast, the scene changes completely in mid-sentence without any warning and material I remember from reading the paperback is gone.  There may be other less-obvious omissions I have missed since I am not reading to find errors.  Maybe some people have a hard time understanding the book, at least in the kindle edition, because much of the material is missing!  Since I don't notice anyone else mentioning this problem, I have to think that I am the first one reviewing the Kindle edition, or that many people are having such a hard time with the language that they don't notice the continuity problems.  So five stars for the book, but buy a hard copy - who knows how long it will be before the Kindle edition is fixed.  It's really aggravating that Kindle editions so often do not live up to the same proofreading criteria as print books.
This not a commentary on the content or the book itself, but the Kindle transfer is worse than useless. Equations are difficult to impossible to read (some are graphics that are far too small, some are "text" with overlapped, obscured or missing symbols). The representation even varies substantially between different versions of the Kindle app, but none are acceptable.
The examples in this book are terrible. They do the most basic and generic examples that often times only take a couple of lines of computations to complete. A lot of times they will make a big step from on line of computation to the next and give very little explaining as to what they did. The problems at the end of each section are much more complex and there is no where in the section that tells you how to solve these more complex examples. The in-section examples are of no help for this because of how easy they are, so you are basically given some VERY basic concepts on what to do and set on your own. At least all of the answers are in the back of the book. Basically, this book has been pretty useless to my understanding of diff eqs. I have learned pretty much everything from lecture.
The font is 12p. It is not GIANT. . It is not suitable for an elderly or person that can't read small print. . The image is mis leading.
I only used this book for the class-assigned homework problems. This book seems aimed to confuse anyone who doesn't have prior knowledge of differential equations. I suggest finding a better book or online source before the class even starts, if possible, because if you don't have a fantastic teacher and you depend solely on this book, you will most likely fail.  I suggest Paul Lamar's lecture notes for a free online source: http://tutorial.math.lamar.edu/Classes/DE/DE.aspx
I can't say much about the book, but most universities using this book are going to require an online access code, which is an additional $75.  I feel that amazon shouldn't be relying on 'customer reviews' to provide this information, since it is part of the text, but they are.  So hoping you see this UP FRONT before you buy the book!  Since codes are likely not transferable, I would advise not buying this book used unless you can really save money....we only saved $10, after spending $110 on the book and another $75 for the access code from Wiley, as the bookstore offered it NEW with a CODE for $200.
didn't diver the right book, and when connected didn't resolve the issue.  Bottom line don't deal with them, find someone else.
Could I simply see one problem followed through from start to finish? I understand that from the perspective of someone who is very well versed in the subject this textbook might be helpful. For the rest just look up what you need to know on Khan Academy or Youtube.
All I can say is it's a good thing I already knew something about ODE's before taking a class that uses this textbook. By the 2nd chapter I had to use all my willpower to resist the urge to hurl this thing out the window. It's often mathematically sloppy, the writing does nothing to elucidate the material, and some of the notation is confusing. Why do universities persist in using so many awful textbooks? Really disappointing.
Most of the time has been spent on meaningless calculation because of poor problem design. I strongly doubt if the author could ever finish calculating all the exercises without professional toolS!
MY FAULT I DID NOT READ THE FINE PRINT!  I NEED LARGE AS YOU CAN SEE,,,LOL
DID NOT come with the registration code so be careful - bunch of lies about the CD-ROM and security code - NO CD-ROM OR CODE - VERY DISAPPOINTED
I've determined the most plausible origin of this book. It most likely went something like this:  An english professor and a math professor were challenged with the task of writing a novel. They decided to kill 2 birds with 1 stone, and combined both of their knowledge to compose the novel, "Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems," with thousands of connect-the-dot puzzles weaved into what the authors describe as "EXAMPLES." There's only one problem with that; most students in this level of math are not in class to read a novel, much less to decipher each agonizing example.  FAIL.
This is the most difficult book to navigate using a kindle.  The blotchy representation of pages on the Kindle and the Kindle app are difficult to read.  You can not blow up the grainy images that are used to present the problems - some problems are represented as regular Kindle text and some are images.  Many of the examples are images that do not expand in size and are difficult to read.  It is too hard to move from page to page and nearly incomprehensible without that ability to reference previous pages.  Please do not buy or rent the Kindle version it may turn out to be as frustrating for you as well.
I'm an undergraduate applied mathematics major and do a lot of modeling that requires differential equations, although I use them every day I've never had a formal class on it.  That being said, this is the. most. horrible. maths textbook I have /ever/ read.  It's bad enough that the sticker price is so high.  The author manages to perfectly obfuscate the most simple topics that were already covered in a normal higher level calc course to the point that I wondered if it was even talking about the same topic.  If your get a bad professor along with this textbook, I would suggest to drop the class faster than a hot potato or get the Tenenbaum and Pollard text "Ordinary Differential Equations."  It is an excellent resource for differential equations and also very cheap.
This book was mandatory for a differential equations course I took last semester. As other reviewers have said, it does a very, very poor job of teaching differential equations solving, and is mostly useful as a set of practice exercises with solutions. I would avoid this book if at all possible - there are far better alternatives available.
This book is a terrible reference for learning students new to differential equations. The readings are very complex and are certainly not written on a level suitable for newcomers. The problems at the end of each section often do not have examples, so one is forced to figure out the solution from scratch. No key concepts are emphasized; walls of text must be deciphered to identify vital components of the lesson. I would not recommend this book to anyone. I have never truly hated a math textbook until now.
This book does a very poor job of explaining methodology for solving problems. The examples are often too simple to be helpful, but often make use of "magic" solving techniques that are not explained anywhere in the surrounding text. This book is extremely frustrating to use if you plan to use it for primary learning, such as in a case where your professor is impossible to understand (thank God that this is the last math course which I must take at Michigan State University), or anything else along those lines. In summary, this is not a good book; avoid it if at all possible.
This is the worst math textbook I have ever read.  I have used many math textbooks over the years, from calculus and number theory to geometry and combinatorics, with varying degrees of enjoyment, and have discovered some general properties: That generally, one must enjoy the math to enjoy the text; and, that even if one enjoys the math, one must be willing to put up with some very dry, detached, and above all boring writing in the course of their studies.  This book, however, takes boring to extremes I've never encountered in a subject I enjoy, let alone one that I love. The writing is so bland that it could have been generated with a computer algorithm.  I'm not kidding.  I don't think I encountered a single personable sentence, or chuckle-worthy phrasing of a statement, or even a non-mechanical adjective in the entire book.  The writing offers absolutely nothing to capture the attention of the casual student, not even the corny plays on words so beloved by math professors over the centuries.  Further, the content is arranged in a non-intuitive manner, with the authors jumping back and forth between topics in a manner that seems arbitrary.  Introductory courses in topics of this complexity will always confuse students to a degree, but the only way to confuse them as thoroughly as this book does is to write a book without a goal in mind, simply jotting down whatever comes to mind first, in the order that it comes to mind, without bothering to perform any sort of check on the logical progression of the topics.  The examples and exercises are terrible.  I don't think I encountered a single problem of any imagination in this book.  I am convinced that the authors brainstormed the most uninteresting physical processes they could think of to illustrate real-life applications of ODEs.  I have never hated reading about field mice and owls as much as I did after reading an introductory chapter that dedicated nearly 50% of its space to discussing how field mice levels are affected by owl predation.  For authors so unintuitive and unengaging, they are astonishingly long-winded.  As a physicist myself, this example was the equivalent of dedicating five pages to a discussion of the speed of a proton moving in a straight line given a certain constant voltage difference.  There may as well be a chapter entitled "Good Night Moon".  Finally, the book is aesthetically ugly.  The cover looks like something from the 80s, while the text layout and typesetting inside the book make the cover look modern in comparison.  If you give this book to a freshman math major and tell them "This is your future", they will probably become an economist.  I do not know why this book is as popular as it is.  All I can reasonably hazard is that people are drawn to it for the fact that it lists all problem solutions in the back, both odd and even.  However, this is not a sufficient bonus to give up being able to learn how to do the problems in the first place, which is an area in which this book utterly fails.  Don't buy this crap.  Get the $15 Dover book instead.  It will teach you in one section what this more expensive book fails to teach you in many worthless chapters.
This book is proof that universities hate their students and only want their money.  Boyce needs to take notes from Rogawski on how to write a comprehensible math text/solutions manual.  I hope Boyce reads these reviews and realizes how big of a bag he is, but he's probably to busy polishing his only turd and repackaging it so he can continue to exploit students for drug money.
Unlike a lot of readers, I found the first 100 or so pages of this book so boring and vague that I just quit reading it.  To me, it wasn't a case of a lousy plot or a boring subject matter, it was the way O'Brian writes.  Far far too much nautical jargon from another era which turned me off.  Yeah, give me some jargon to set the atmosphere, but ye gods, how much do I need?  It's hard enough to keep all the sails and lines straight -- now I gotta figure out all the arcanities of the English of the times.  It's just more than I wish to take on in a book that I read for recreation.  A book that leads to a whole series.  If you don't like the way the author is writing, there's little sense, it seems to me, to plow ahead because you know the book probably will not improve, according to your liking. In other words, it's not that it's a lousy book -- probably far from it -- it's just that I don't feel like doing the work.  I'll stick to hornblower and a couple of other sea-scribes (that would include Nicholas Monserrat) and I'll leave Patrick O'Brian to his many legions of fans.  I won't be missed.
This is the most godawful math textbook I have ever encountered. The explanations are horribly verbose and many important concepts aren't even covered in the section itself; they're buried in the end-of-section problems. The examples skip so many steps that they're almost impossible to follow. Important equations aren't clearly expressed in the book. Some pages are nothing but huge blocks of text. Many answers in the back of the book aren't in any notation a human would ever use -- you can tell someone just lazily plugged the equations into some software like Mathematica and used its results as the solution instead of changing it to a format a human would write the answer as. As a result of this, you will waste a lot of time with algebra trying to factor the solution into one that matches the book. I can't believe this book has managed to thrive for nine editions in this awful state. If you are unfortunate enough to have this book for your ODE class, I highly recommend you find another book for guidance because you will learn absolutely nothing from this one. Who knows how many people's passion for math this book has destroyed...
It's highway robbery that they're even allowed to sell this crap, let alone have it be a course book at schools. If there is an  complex math that they hint at, god forbid they explain it. They're too busy explaining incredibly simple topics. They mention interchanging rows of a matrix in passing, but spend THREE EXAMPLES showing you how to plot a piecewise continuous function. A task any human being could accomplish. The solution guide is horrible, god forbid they actually do any math in this book. I'm thoroughly convinced these authors cannot perform math, just simply plug numbers into computer algebra system, making many of their examples WAY too complicated.
Save your money and buy Ordinary Differential Equations by Tennenbaum and Pollard, or use Paul's online math notes.  I PROMISE you will not learn ANYTHING from this book.  The exposition is confusing at best, and many important concepts are left as exercises.  If you must use this book for a class, purchase an earlier edition for a cheaper price.  If you are trying to learn differntial equations solely from this text, it will be rough sailing.
The good: none.  The bad: Techniques are taught in examples, not beforehand. Ridiculously confusing notation. Large steps in arithmetic and logic are left out. Messy algebra for the sake of messy algebra -- what's the pedagogical value? Overly difficult word problems that assume prior knowledge. $150 for this?  Just another bad university textbook. Move along, nothing to see.  Update:  I'm still using this book in my differential equations II class. This book really is the epitome of garbage. Chapter 10 flawlessly exemplifies the confusing notation, blatant use of a CAS, and pointlessly messy algebra.
I've ordered this book twice and both times the book has been missing pages 397-412.  Make sure to check with the seller that these pages are present before you order!  Also, if you're buying this as an alternate to the much more expensive, hardcover U.S. edition, be advised that a number of problems at the end of each chapter have been switched around or changed.
The product was "shipped" the next day; however I did not receive it until after the estimated 3 weeks. This is terrible. I was about to file a claim when it arrived. Unless you are buying your books a month in advance... do not buy it from this retailer.
Like everyone else is saying, this book sucks. The only good parts I see are how *some* sections are kinda clear, and also the pretty organized layout. There are some decent examples, but that's really not saying much. This book overall is very confusing and poorly worded. If you don't believe me, then just read the other reviewers. The book spends approximately 3 pages rambling on about slope fields, and that should've only taken 1/2 a page at most. The authors of this book come up with the most convoluted explanations ever!  More importantly, the book often skips steps when doing examples. It's very likely the authors just slapped together most of the examples through a computer, as they often contain HUGE leaps of logic, and skip many crucial steps. In addition, some problems in the book are just awful, and by awful, I mean ridiculously stupid. Some problems will probably take forever to be done by a human, as they involve ridiculously time-consuming integrals, which is completely irrelevent to the study of differential equations. Other stupid problems include how the author expects students to possess a complete understanding of chemistry / physics to solve the problem - An example could be a differential equation involving battery charge. The authors expected me to know how to rewrite the equation if they rewire the resistors and then tinker the voltage - the same goes for a chemical reaction problem - they just expected me to know physical chemistry and write a diff eqn to model it. Lastly, some answers in the back are wrong, which is pitiful considering that the greedy publisher releases this book at least once every 2 years or so.  The book is poorly worded, does a bad job explaining, lacks coherent examples, contains errors (STILL!), and contains very annoying problems that are way beyond the explanations / examples
Textbooks are big money; everyone knows that. But, now they aren't even trying to hide that new editions are only about the money. People make mistakes, even the infallible textbook authors, and improvements can often be made on anything, but after a few editions maybe it's time to give it a rest. You can go to any college library and find a plethora of great and decent differential equation books , almost all of which approach the subject much better than Boyce and DiPrima.
Okay, so I bought and read this book because I guess I am a glutton for punishment. This book is sooooooooo stupid. It has the worst plot line, the characters are so unbelievable and the prose is ridiculously weak. I mean, it reads like an 8th grade book report, if that report got a "D"!! So, we start with the birth of this kid, told from 4 different points of view, kinda like that one movie with Tim Roth, I think it's called "4 Rooms", except that movie was actually good. So these 4 guys are telling the story and maybe someone should have mentioned it to them so they could have got their stories straight!!!! Unbelievable!! Right out the gate and they're already screwed. Oh holy crap, I skipped the best part. This kids mom claims to have a "virgin birth"!?!?!?! Whatever Mary, you harlot!!! I wonder how that happened:   Mary: Uh dad, I have something to tell you...,   Her Dad: What is it my most perfect daughter who I love more than anything   Mary: well uh, I guess...the thing is....uh...Happy Grandparents Day?   Her Dad: Oh Mary, you freaking whore!!! Is it that shiftless bum Joseph??? I goddamm knew it!! (to her mom) Honey, go get my big bag of   stones, for stoning filthy whores that have lain with men out of wedlock   Mary: Oh no Daddy!!! I, uh, didn't have carnal knowledge with Joseph...I'm totally a virgin, I swear to God   Her Dad: Really??? It's a miracle from God!!! Yay God, thank you for putting a baby into my daughter, totally not weird or anything!!   Mary: Exactly daddy, it's a baby from God, God's only begotten son...so, we're good, right?  My guess is that it happened exactly like that. So, Mary pumps out this kid Jesus, he goes to temple to argue with his elders a few times then he disappears for like 20 years!!! Then he pops up at age 30 or so and is like "I'm here to save mankind". Really???  No offense buddy but the only "Jesus" I know mows my lawn and he couldn't save my flower bed from weeds if his job depended on it (it doesn't, I'm not a dick or anything), so I doubt this Jewish Jesus would've vanquished the Roman army. So he roams around the desert, constantly contradicting himself and then, SPOILER ALERT, he dies. Then, incredibly, instead of letting this character die with some dignity, they decided to have him come back to life?!?! Talk about jumping the shark. So to sum up, worst book ever.
If you must use this text attend your lectures, because it is hard to figure out concepts and processes from the text alone.
This book is probably the most horrible textbook I've seen in my life. There are several reasons:    1. They introduce new concept in the example, instead of putting them in a box label Definition or Theorem.   2. And some consecutive theorems are too trivial to be called theorems, they are more like lemma   3. Lacks mathematical rigorousness, most of the time, they just do things without explaining it. (They talk about linear independence and the determinant matrix without introducing some concept from linear algebra. And use operators without going over what they really are)   4. The structure of each chapter is sloppy and illogical.  Don't buy this book unless it's required for your class
okay, this is strike two according to my patience.  the 9th international edition (the paperback version) of this text does not match the 9th domestic edition in problem set ordering.  everyone knows why this is, i don't need to rant about it.  just be forewarned.  if you need this for a class, you'll be SOL unless you can use a friend's book or cramster to make sure you're on the right problem.  should i pretend to make this a review of the book, i'd be wasting my time.  everyone else with complaints has already done my job.  it's a difficult and confusing text with a lot of obscured operations in examples and a lot of numeric solutions that don't illustrate anything about what the answer represents.  (it's a bit difficult to recognize 0.54406157 as 1-e^(-pi/4)).  the SSM is terse and covers only a handful of the problems at that. ...oh wait, my bad, this isn't a review of the book.  this is a review of getting taken for a ride again by a publisher that feels the need to drag its market back into the sandbox by force of sheer aggravation. for that, i give it one star.  i was more forgiving last time this happened, but maybe i'm a bit miffed by having to deal with the university's follett bookstore and have a little lower tolerance for this kind of tired old game.  cheers.  (he says with a scowl)
Master ans Commander is a rambling poorly written book. Whoever said that this book was a great historical sea novel must have been smoking some funny tobacco or took a bribe, this book sucked. the author used foreign terms that was way over my head. I don't know Greek,French Spanish or any other language than English. Reading this book became a chore to read. I have read and enjoyed textbooks more than this book.
I picked this back up after having used it for class about four years ago, and I'm as disappointed now as I was then.  My first impression reading through this was the puzzling organization.  The chapter's aren't ordered in a way that's much good for someone who knows nothing about ODE's, and within the chapter's the material is disorganized.  For example in the first chapter, when first order linear ODE's are introduced, the first analytical method shown in Leibniz's integration rule.  As a 17 year old taking Diff Equ's, this felt like running (or maybe jogging) before walking.  Furthermore, the language is stilted in a way that wouldn't make sense to an undergraduate who hasn't taken real or numerical analysis.  Which reading it now is alright, but otherwise it's kind of bootstrapping.  There are a few other technical mistakes (Euler's method is kind of botched and Step Function is unsatisfying, to name a few).  Ultimately this book is really no good for beginners.  The emphasis on "Existence and Uniqueness" of solutions isn't useful for much.  As a reference, this is really incomplete as well.  Chapter's 8 and 9 are the only parts of this book I've found useful, and they're limited.  If you're learning this material for the first time I'd recommend Martin Braun's text, or maybe one of the Dover series.  Both of those are at least worth hanging on to if you need to relearn anything.  Otherwise, my text books on Numerical Analysis books more useful today for ODE's.
The book is flat out overcomplicated, this stuff could have been explained alot easier, just reading it right now i get a headache, proffr's and mathematicians who write books always have to make things so much harder then they need to be...horrible book  thumbs way down.
The book is filled with abstract theory little of which makes sense to an ODE introductory student. The examples given in the book are rarely similar to the ones found in the problem set. I am currently taking ODE and I feel like I spend more time learning from the internet than from the book. The author takes the simplest topic and makes it sound like neuroscience. If you can avoid buying this book, then do so at all costs. If not, just get the old version for a low price( for the problem sets) and try learning the material from youtube and google.
This is one of the finest sea stories ever written with meticulous detail to character but I cannot purchase the eBook for my Kindle only the audio version. If you happen to like audio books I strongly recommend this.
I DON'T LIKE THAT SATAN WAS KICKED OUT OF HEAVAN. HE HAD FEELINGS TOO!!!!
Well, after spending hours reading through this textbook, I have learned; this is a pathetic textbook! There are at least three problems I have had the displeasure of meeting in it.  1. Idiotic notation. The authors inexplicably use extremely "out there" symbols to represent things (Do you like the greek alphabet?). Another example is their use of things like dx/dt to "introduce" differential equations. I know from experience that the relation between the independent and dependent variable in an equation (commonly, x and y respectively) should be emphasized in the initial stages of an ordinary differential equations course. This emphasiis helps the student develop an understanding of what a differential equation is. So, what's with the abstract notation for the introduction here?  Seriously, why can't they use symbols related to what we encounter in the "real" world?  2. Insanely bad organization. The authors, for whatever reason, have forced math teachers almost everywhere to present the books material out of the books original order. For example, the integrating factor method of solving differential equations is presented before the basic separation method. I cannot aptly express how truly asinine the books ordering seems to me.  3. cloudy explanations. This books has every possible failing I can currently think of when it comes to explaining the material. When examples are provided to illustrate a concept, they are either extremely terse and misty, or wordy and annoyingly obscure the point. In addition, the authors don't even attempt to provide a general method for arriving at equations to represent real world phenomenon. For instance, there is just one example for dilution problems (section 2.3) and it uses a prepackaged formula (for the ODE beginner; trust me, that's a superficial explanation). It's kinda ironic actually; even when I'm extremely familiar with the material the book is trying to explain (always due to my study of another text) I can't seem to figure out what they are "really" trying to say. Hey authors, get a clue!  In all seriousness, this book is shameful as a beginning text, and even more so as an advanced one.  For people wanting to learn something more positive from a differential equations text(something about differential equations!) try engineering and advanced engineering mathematics by Kenneth Stroud (especially the advanced one). For more rigorous explanations and comprehensiveness try Morris Tenenbaums "Ordinary Differential Equations" (it's extremely cheap too (I mean moneywise))
Everyone I have talked to dislikes this book, although perhaps for different reasons.  I find the style opaque because it never clearly defines its terms or states results with precision (it goes without saying that it hardly proves anything).  That is, it's not presenting sufficiently rigorously.  Others find the style opaque because it's not presented sufficiently intuitively.  The book is organized in surprisingly long paragraphs and typically states in words what would be much clearler and shorter in symbols.  As a result, reading even the easy-to-understand sections is somewhat of a chore.  Since it lacks both rigor and expository virtue the book should largely be avoided.  The book is perhaps useful as a set of problems with solutions.  I found Tenenbaum and Pollard's book rather good, well-organized, and easy to understand...you can also pick it up for $17 new.  I have no recommendations for better books that cover numerical techniques or more advanced theory, but I'm sure other Amazon readers do.
If you're a math major, DON'T buy this book!  Buy Ordinary Differential Equations by Morris Tenenbaum & Harry Pollard instead - an amazing book!
Now look: I am an avid reader. I enjoy from a light airy read to a dense thought-provoking novel. Words are no strangers to me. But the words Patrick O'Brian uses on his celebrated novels read like a notaries' account of a naval court-martial. There really should be an annotated version of this book so people eager to get into the series can be eased into the terminology. A previous reviewer suggested "skipping over" the dense nautical jargon, sound advice for some but I can't read in this fashion. I really wanted to love these books but I had to pause so many times to go look on the internet what the hell the man was writing about I gave up on the first 100 pages or so. Kudos to those that are into them (I envy you guys) but be warned: Mr. O'Brian uses a LOT of dense nautical terms to describe what's going on so disorientation sets in and doesn't leave (at least the first 100 pager or so, wouldn't know about afterwards). It's like trying to watch a french film with no subtitles, some non-french-speaking people may enjoy it but I'd rather understand what's going on.
This is a horrible book. Explanations and example problems are no good. Not helpful at all.
I cannot fathom why the college that I go to decided to use this tripe as the text of choice. This book is difficult to follow, poorly worded, and does not give the best examples. I would even be afraid to use this book to level the legs of my desk. I find more useful information about differential equations from Stewart's calculus book, and from sources on the internet than in this waste of paper.
If you are a college professor looking to brush up, then it is fine, otherwise this book is terrible.
The book uses weird symbols than what I am used to. Hard language to understand. I wouldn't recommend it to another person. The book I recommend is Ordinary Differential Equations by Morris Tenenbaum and Harry Pollard.  They use symbols we learned in college and don't throw you into a loop by saying " what did they mean by that?" Personally, I don't like someone stuffing something down people's throat without explaining in detail what they mean in plain terms. I found their language unfriendly.
The bookseller send me just a CD while I was expecting a book with CD. It is not mentioned anywhere that it would be just a CD not whole book. And if I asked for refund he is not willing to refund. He is here on Amazon.com to cheat people.
Thought this was the book, and it was just a solutions manual CD...and it was a burned CD at that...Definately illegal.
I had to buy this book for my ODE class, and it may be the worst book I have had to buy yet. First, the text is not very clear, and there are few examples. Methods for solving DEs are (sometimes) introduced in the problems, rather than in the text. Second, the quality of the book is poor. I bought mine new, and there were ink splotches on several pages--not the quality I would expect from a $160 college textbook! Besides the splotches, the paper quality is poor as well. I also was bothered by having to tear the CD out, leaving a ripped page in the textbook. You can tear along the preforated edge, but this leaves a ridge in the pages that is most annoying. The software that comes with is OK, but the videos seem like something from a 6th grade science show.
wrong one
I tried reading this book a few years ago, but only got about a quarter of the way through before I got sick(not because of the book!) and moved onto other reading while I recovered. This week, I tried again...and made it almost halfway through before realizing there was a big problem...I simply couldn't force myself to care enough to finish! O'Brian was clearly an intelligent man, with a remarkable grasp of the subject matter, but that simply isn't enough to make 'Master and Commander' worth reading. As an author, his narrative voice is far too dry, stuffy, and disconnected-a problem with other authors of his generation(such as P.D. James), who tried to make up for the shortcomings of a story by burying it in an overabundance of research, and verbiage. The 200 or so pages I read came nowhere close to delivering what was promised by the blurb on the back cover: '...all the action and excitement which could possibly be hoped for in a historical novel'. There is certainly development of the characters, from what I saw, as Aubery, Maturin, and Dillon, in particular, show promise that must have ben realized in later books. The problem is that there is very little action in this book, and far too many nautical terms, which, as other readers suggested, really needed an appendix to help newbie/'landlubber' readers. O'Brian just didn't 'sound' like a polished author of fiction when he wrote this book; he made it sound too much like a textbook on sailing terminology, and opted for a much too leisurely, languid, pace. I'm sure, as others have said, that this was the 'shakedown voyage' for the Aubery-Maturin series, and that O'Brian grew more comfortable with storytelling, and allowed his characters to take over the story. I'm just not convinced, after struggling with this story, that I want to try again. I am interested in other historical fiction of this period, such as the 'Hornblower' series, or the 'Blind Justice' series by Bruce Alexander, set more or less in the same time period. I just prefer that such stories have interesting, engaging characters; dialogue that doesn't put the readers to sleep, or make them 'skip over' long, boring passages; and, most of all, something exciting happening  more than approximately once every hundred pages!
The book tries to make things simple and fails miserably. The round-about explainations are confusing. The maladroit, verbose language obfuscates what they are trying to impart. (It's curious that the 5th edition I looked at is often clearer than this 8th edition, and it's shorter too.) What ahould be simple and direct is convolved (no pun intended) into meandering examples unworthy of the name, the point of which often a mystery even to those who are very experienced with ODEs, and obfuscatory verbosity. I'm baffled as to how they book's author (or anyone) thought this might be a useful style. If you are a Professor, then please be nice to the kids and don't use this. If you are a student, I strongly recommend you buy an additional textbook; it would amaze me to see anyone learn ODEs from this; it should be at least possible, albeit difficult, to learn the subject from a textbook alone.
Those of you that believe those 5 star reviews are true, forget it. After passing a course of differential equations throughout a grueling semester I can certainly attest to the latter.  This book has horrid if not completely non-existent examples and even the solutions manual is nearly worthless. If you've spent more than a semester without calculus you might as well forget trying to use this book in a formal course.  Perhaps if you're a "bright" student you could make use of this book, though still it is absolutely no testament to professional teaching methodology. If you intend to learn the subject for any moderate application, look elsewhere. This book has no practical application examples worth any salt. This book is not for engineers; most certainly it's best application being for theoretical mathematicians.  If your instructor requires this book, and you're an engineer, you'd better start hoping he's a darn good instructor.
If I didn't have better things to live for, I would dedicate my life to hating this book.  It's TERRIBLE!  Visual learners shudder and linguists are baffled left and right.  The examples don't match up AT ALL with the exercises and the book is not succinct at all, whatsoever.  There is no elegance.  This book is a disservice to mathematics.  PLEASE, if your instructor requires this book, CHANGE INSTRUCTORS.
I used an earlier version of Boyce & DiPrima and hated it like most everyone else here. (Why is it that all the crappy textbooks live on, edition-after-edition, inflicted on a new batch of students year-after-year?) To get through my DE course I used the book by Dennis G. Zill. It was pretty good. Zill's book is still around. Comes in several different flavors.  For those looking for a better book than Boyce/Diprima I've listed all recent, introductory DE books I could find on amazon:  "An Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations" by James C. Robinson (ISBN 0521533910). This provides a very gentle introduction. does not cover Laplace transforms.  Shepley L. Ross has 2 books: an intro book (Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations, 4th Edition ISBN: 978-0-471-09881-2) and a regular text (Differential Equations, 3rd Edition, ISBN: 978-0-471-03294-6) which have garnered good reviews.  Can also try "Elementary Differential Equations" by Kohler and Johnson.  Physical Science/Engineering/applications oriented:  2 books by John Polking (one on DEs and one on ODEs/BVPs) Elementary Differential Equations by William Trench Fundamentals of Differential Equations by Nagle, Saff & Snider An Introduction to Differential Equations and Their Applications by Stanley J. Farlow (ISBN 048644595X). He's also got a PDE book.  For the engineers: you might want to skip a separate DE book altogether and get a combined book. Something like Linear Algebra and Differential Equations by Peterson and Sochacki  OR just get all of Ken Stroud's engineering math books:  "Engineering Mathematics" by K.A. Stroud, Dexter Booth "Advanced Engineering Mathematics" by K.A. Stroud, Dexter Booth "Differential Equations" by K.A. Stroud, Dexter Booth "Vector Analysis" by K.A. Stroud, Dexter Booth "Linear Algebra" by K.A. Stroud, Dexter Booth "Complex Variables" by K.A. Stroud, Dexter Booth  other options: "Differential Equations Demystified" by Steven G. Krantz / "2500 Solved Problems in Differential Equations" (Schaum's Solved Problems Series) by Richard Bronson / The Differential Equations Problem Solver ISBN 0878915133  Two books that involve computer/numerical methods would be:  1. A Modern Introduction to Differential Equations by Henry Ricardo 2. Differential Equations: An Introduction to Modern Methods and Applications by James R. Brannan, William E. Boyce. Although, I'd be leery of any DE book with Boyce as an author.  Of course, Dover Publications has inexpensively reprinted boatloads of classic math books including these DE titles:  "Ordinary Differential Equations" by Morris Tenenbaum, Harry Pollard. (rated highly)  Plus in addition to the Farlow book they have:  An Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations by Earl A. Coddington Introduction to Linear Algebra and Differential Equations by John W. Dettman Differential Equations: A Concise Course by H. S. Bear
I had used this book for a Introductory Differential Equations class I took my Junior year and because of this book I had the worst time understanding the material in this class. The explanations are convoluted and lengthy, yet somehow manage to skip important steps, leaving it up to the student to have to decipher the logic behind the example problems and core theorems/methods. You know a textbook is bad when understanding the concepts and examples takes just as long as doing the homework. Professors, I beg you not to make your students have to purchase and use this book in your Diff. Eq's classes. I guarantee you'll have a more motivated and successful class if you choose a more interesting, less lifeless book than this.
One of the many problems with this book is the order in which the topics are presented.  Right off the bat, They decide to put linear equations ahead of all other types of DE's.  Are they really as simple to solve as seperable equations?  The entire second chapter is a complete mess and is very disorganized.  The forumla for the integrating factor of linear equations is difficult to ascertain, and it is never clearly stated (it's there, but their notation is convoluted).  I don't want to sound like someone who is just having difficulty with the math taking it out on the innocent textbook.  I have consulted other textbooks on the topic, and I have to say that I really like Zill's DE's for the logical way in which it is organized, and  Kohler and Johnson's text for its clear explanations.  My professor actually commented on how bad this book is.  All DE textbooks are NOT created equally, and if you are struggling through this one, try finding older editions of those other two from your University's library.
I have both the text and the solutions manual that accompanies it.  The book itself is lousy; the examples skip so many steps they're nearly impossible to follow.  The so called solutions manual isn't any better; it only has certain problems worked out, and even those aren't done well.  At least the book has one line answers to ALL the problems in the back.
Ok..take that back...it does have all the answers in the back of the book, that is worth one star.  I would recommend many supplements to help you learn the steps fully.  Very confusing text, nothing really explained well.  A VERY solid knowledge of calculus is required...get out and study all of Cal 1 and Cal 2 again to refresh.
This book is absymal.  There is no other way to put it.  It boggles the mind to think that this text ever made it print.  The concepts in DiffEq are really not that hard, but this book cannot even explain simple concepts elequently -- and I am a Math major.    If you are Math faculty member that has any decision making powers, I strongly urge you to choose ANY other book.  Choosing this book for your DiffEq class will devalue the quality of education provided by your University.  IT IS THAT BAD.
It is interesting that the reviews of this book are so polarized, probably a result of different ways of conceptualizing math. I lean very much towards spatial (three dimensional)thinking, and this book has proven utterly worthless to me.  This is unfortunate, because most aspiring engineerers think spatially, and most are required to take a differential equations course.  My specific complaints are numerous:  1) Far too few examples 2) Exremely disorganized (examples in the book will reference a formula, concept or previous example in previous sections rather than restating the problem. I spend a lot of time flipping pages back and forth, which significantly interferes with my train of thought.) 3) Essential components of an example will be presented in paragraph form, but the reader would be much better served by presenting the information in a table or at least using a block quotation. 4) The answers in the back of the book are regulary presented in an unusual form that requires unnecessary algebraic manipulation. 5) The language is unnecessarily theoretical. 6) The examples don't really present a step-by-step method for solving a problem, but devolve into further abstraction. 7) Further discussion of essential subject matter is presented in the problems section rather than in the heart of the chapter.  If you find yourself asking the questions, "What purpose does this technique serve? Why do we need to know this? How will this help me solve a problem in the real world? or Will you draw a picture of that?" then this book is likely of little value.  And if you have a bad teacher, you may just be sunk. I just bought REA's Differential Equation Problem Solver and Tennenbaum's "Ordinary Differential Equations". I hope it helps.
I'm a student that reads all my text books and relies heavy on them. This book starts off doing a great job on first order differential equations. However, as the book move on it falls short on examples,and doing a poor job explaining more advance topics. I had real trouble with the applied sections on secound order non-homogeneus equations. I have read the older additions of this book and think they were much better. Sorry !!!!!
As a student who is used to learning math material primarily by reading the book, I have found this textbook far below average.  Each chapter begins with a brief explanation that consists mostly of formal proofs.  I don't mind having formal proofs if there is also intuitive explanations, which this book lacks.  For the most part, the authors of the book don't seem too eager to actually have the student understand the material.  The examples are a little more helpful but usually the authors skip steps or don't even solve the problem the whole way threw almost as if the they want the reader to try to figure EVERYTHING out on his or her own.  This, in my opinion, is not the best way to teach this math.  I suppose if you have if you were to learn most of the math from a proffesor, this text would be a good suppliment--problems are usefull and solutions are many.  Just don't try to learn straight from the text.  In more than one case the authors would give formulas or definitions without even defining all variables.
I don't have much to say that hasn't already been said, but I felt it important enough to pipe in and agree with most of the negative comments. The book is unnecessarily complicated, skips non-obvious steps in the examples, provides no review for material that justifiably should be reviewed, and has a very poor approach to explanation of concepts. Contrasted to James Stewart's Calculus book that I've used for the past year, this book almost makes me want to cry and turn into an English major. The key to surviving a class that requires this book is to get another book. I'm a Berkeley student, for whatever that's worth.
I am taking a differential equations course for the engineering program at Drexel University and I must say that this is one of the worst text books I have ever come across. I wonder what Boyce and Diprima were smoking as they were writting this book. First of all make sure you brush up on your greek before reading this book, there are more greek symbols in it then there are numbers or letters from the english alphabet.  This book is so vague that you may as well consult a magic 8-ball for guidance.  Basically, if you buy this book, prepare to fail.  It skips so many steps its rediculous.  My mind turns to mush every time I open it.  For my homework in this course using this book, I just write the giberish my magic 8 ball tells me to.  Even the TAs are lost in this book.  Consider this a warning and not a rating.  STAY AWAY!
Please take this advice; I have been using this book for the past four months. This is a rare occasion.  I never take to the time to go to a site and write a review unless there is some outstanding reason.  This is my fourth year as an engineering student and while I have had some bad books, I have NEVER had a book this bad.  For example, the text almost never gives full examples let alone examples on how to do the practice problems/homework problems.  When the text gives example problems, it will randomly skip important steps.  Ironically, in a lot of cases, it will skip the step/method that is being covered in the section.  Also, the text mainly discusses theory and usually doesn't really show how to solve these equations.  Furthermore, the solutions manual is just as bad.  Solutions are given in a sloppy manner that are unclear and incomplete.  I would not recommend this book to any university as an introductory differential equations text.
In my opinion the text is one that's written by mathematicians for math majors. To the first time student, it comes across as being unapproachable and vague. Its almost as though the publisher wrote this text for the instructors to use as a tool to weed out students who struggle with mathematics. Instead of purchasing Wileys text, I recommend two others: "Schaums Outline Of Differential Equations" and "Fundamentals Of Differential Equations" (By Nagle/Saff Publisher Addison Wesley).
I didn't know how small the type was, hard to read.
This book is simply awful, one of the worst textbooks I've used for class purposes.  Even though there seems to be plenty of examples, the books short fall is on explanations (i.e. how to get from one step to the next).  This textbook also seems to make many assumptions about what the student may or may not know about prerequisite material.  Definitions and General Formulas are not clearly boxed or highlighted, like you'd find in a James Stewart textbook.  I'm currently looking for another Differential Equation textbook, in order to actually learn the material, and make it through my class this semester.  I'm completely lost with this book.  As a student (Oakland University, Rochester, Michigan) I've purchased many math textbooks over the years, and this one would probably rank as the worst- I would NOT recommend this book.
Not complete
Disappointed in the inability to select passages for listening. This makes the book impractical for anything except for reading straight through. The Bible is not designed to be read as if it were a novel. The quality is quite good for the readers that I have heard. The lack of selective reading makes this a poor choice for purchase. If this is corrected or if I have failed to find the key, I would update for higher rating. Otherwise, I cannot recommend
Print is tiny and not readable
the bible is ready to fall apart, i am very unsatisfied with my purchase
Print to small
as long as I have had it.. I cannot for the life of me figure out how to get to my texts and versus I want.. It is not a good product to represent the Great Bible.
I was really disappointed, because the print was small and the paper was so thin you could see the print from the other side. I'm only 39, and my eye site isn't that bad, but I was buying it for someone who needed large print.
Could you make anything more tiny?!?!
I attempted reading several of his books.  I found them boring and the language stilted. Many authors use the vocabulary of a time and place without making the characters come alive.  It is all just a jumble of words strung together over many pages.  I sensed no excitement or adventure in his books.  To my mind such authors do not really understand what it was like to sail or fight a ship or what motivated people and how they related to one another. On the other hand, Alexander Kent, a British writer, published a series about Richard Bolitho and now writes about his nephew, Adam Bolitho. Mostly during the time of Napoleon.  They are enthralling.  There is a minimum of jargon.  You learn much about sailing ships and the conditions of those who served in them as well as about the society of the day.  They are first of all sea adventure tales. They are both exciting and absorbing. There is some romance but these are mostly about men and their lives at sea together.  This author also writes World War II sea adventure tales under the name Douglas Reeman.  Pick your time period.  I highly recommend both of them. I retired from the public library field after more than thirty years.  I recognize the popularity of Mr. O'Brian.  Tastes in reading differ.  I just found it impossible to read his books.  Especially after reading the Hornblower and Bolitho novels.
Table of contents is horrible.  Doesn't work well on my phone.  Half of it is cut off.  Instead simply "Genesis",  there is this ridiculously long spelled out "The First Book of Moses Call...  I'm assuming what this is meant to say is "The First Book of Moses Called Genesis".  The rest is cut off.  Why not simply write "Genesis".  It's the same way for nearly the entire contents.  I'm getting a refund.  I'm sticking with "Bible by Tecarta".  It's free from Google Play Store and has a much better interface, search engine and table of contents.  Check it out.
I always prided myself in finishing every book that I started no matter how bad. Patrick O'Brian managed to give me an Ol' Broadside. I just couldn't finish it. I tried but I realised I was wasting too much of a short life. I was hoping that these books would be like a "Sharpe at Sea" type series. Alas it was not to be and reading this left me in the "Doldrums".
I wanted to like this book, I really did.  I was excited at the prospect of starting a 20 book series of swashbuckling adventure.  Now I wouldn't read the remaining books if you made me walk the plank!  I rarely cast aside a book before I finish it but when I reached page 280 and still hadn't come across a significant plot point it was time to run this ship aground. While it was interesting to read about life at sea in that age, an accomplished author would have found a way to do it and tell a story at the same time.  Mr. O'Brian could have learned a thing or two from James Clavell.
Impossible to navigate.  Table of contents locked my kindle up.  Goto is book:chapter and is ridiculous to scroll through.
After reading the Hornblower series I was looking for more.  I got through about two chapters of this and threw it away.  O'brian writes like an old woman.  The story seems to be about tea parties and gossip, the time and setting seem incidental to the story.  Tedious and boring.  If you like Jane Austin, you'll like O'brian, maybe.  Skip it and try Alexander Kents "Richard Bolitho" series.
I bought this book after hearing and reading all the hype about the series and was really looking forward to it. But I must second the few other reviewers here who did not like it.  I wish I had paid more attention to  their comments. I am not a sailor and the text is so full of technical  terms (it is truly a technical tour-de-force), I probably understood only  10% of what I read. I recommend A Sea of Words by Dean King to those of you  who like, but don't understand, this series. It is an essential companion  work for the non-sea-going reader. Indeed, I think the publisher would have  done readers a tremendous favor by including a glossary at the end of the  novel. I expected some technical terms and information, but all the  reviews I had read emphasized the character development. What character  development? At the end of the book, I knew little more about Aubrey and  Maturin than I did when I started and what I learned didn't much interest  me. Even the battle scenes were repetitive and boring. I stuck it  through to the end, but I have rarely been more bored by a work of  fiction. I strongly suggest that potential buyers borrow or browse a copy  before buying to find out if they're part of the majority or the minority.  If the first couple of pages bore one, as they did me, so will the rest of  the book.
Book arrived and did not match the one pictured and stunk so bad of cigarette smoke that I could not stand it in the house.  Fly leaf had been torn out. Wasted money ! Disposed of it.
Contrary to many of the reviews listed here (which influenced me to buy this book), I found it very tedious and difficult to read. It is so engrossed in the old English and ship terms that it's only value for me was  as an academic exercise.  Entertainment value: 1 out of 5, Technical  Sailing terms: 5 out of 5, Readability: 1 out of 5. Recommendation: Select  something more enjoyable to read.
What a boring book!!  Having to read the other 16 or whatever books in the series would be like a punishment. Only reason I read this was that it was selected by our book club.  Aubrey and Maturin are not very profound or  complex characters.  I was not impressed with O'brian evolution of  characters - the arcane language gave the story a gloss but no substance.  This is like the Hardy Boys series for adults.
VERY DISAPPOINTED I DID NOT RECEIVE WHAT I THOUGHT TO BE IN THE PICTURE AND THE COVER OF THE BIBLE IS NOT SOFT LEATHER MORE LIKE CHEAP CARD BOARD. NOT GOOD TO ADVERTISE SOMETHING AND NOT DELIVER ON THE PRODUCT!!!!!!
Poor all around.
This was a great disappointment, but considering the cost it was cheaply put together. Could not open without feeling it would pull apart. It was my mistake and I ended up with a very good "Common English Bible. There are many by that name and should be examined more carefully. I learned a lot by my mistake.
Teenie tiny print.  Very hard to read.
it's just not what I thought it was I had a hard time trying to get into this bible.  So I delete it from my kindle
I did not order this product, have not opened it on my Kindle thus would give this "non-product" (to me at least) a zero)  I was trying to order the "Common English Bible."  Perhaps I erred in the way I placed the order though have successfully placed many Amazon orders over the years.  jtp
This one was not correct when compared to my physical KJV Bible.  Many incorrectly written verses.
Received regular print and didn't have one to send me so they credited my account
No user friendly
To hard to navigate.
I won't comment on the translation itself, the New King James is the New King James.  However, this edition is not indexed, so the only way to go to your favorite verse is to navigate to the Table of Contents, find the book and chapter, navigate there, and then page through the chapter till you find the verse you want.  I can't imagine why anyone would make an electronic Bible so inconvenient to use.
its not an full book there for it crap 2 Baruch 51;1 is missing an if you ever read it you know why they took it out
hard to navigate does not have books of the bible got to guess
Not easy yo navigate....
I got this used for my atheistic studies. Full of nonsense stories with rape, murder and incest
I just didn't like it was confusing. It didn't always show the book of the bible I was reading. No Thanks.
It look like a lot of work went into making  this book. But as for the truth about this translation,there is some double about its accuracy from other bible scholars.
Although it's large print, reading is difficult in dim light, as a bedside lamp. Moreover the red letters which Jesus spoke make it worse, as they are too faint. I consider this Bible useless.
You mall  put me into a sleep coma I will never buy  again products how horrible they smell was in the hall horrible was the Book some people burn bookS that small like this
A WASTE OF MONEY. There has  been much talk about Aramaic versions of the Scriptures, and the "Lamsa" version has been especially touted by Sylvia Browne and other new age icons. Don't waste your money, or your time. This is not suitable as a "reference" or "study" Bible. I have six different versions of the Old and New Testaments. This books offers only minimal changes in words or wording. It definitely will not impart new insight, or understanding to the reader.
I wanted to look up a verse in 2Timothy, wanted to use the contents for a faster way to get to that book but it wasn't' listed,the reason why I chose the bible because it is :easy to use when you need to go from book to book with flipping thru , just go to the contents and you're at the book you wanted, not this one but list all of the books of the bible it stops at Philippians then you have to flip the pages to get pass Philippians, not a good bible to use if you like following the sermons,
DO NOT BUY THIS FOR KINDLE. PAGES DO NOT DISPLAY IN ORDER. DON'T PLAN ON READING THE BIBLE IF YOU BUY THIS.
