It shows in the photo, but it should have been clear in the description that this is a bilingual edition! It's distracting if that's not what you're after!!
We have this at home for our son, so I bought it for a friend as a baby gift.  When I received the book, I was very upset to find out that the entire book was written in both English and either Japanese/Chinese/Korean characters.  It was too late for me to attempt to return the book and get a new copy, but very upset to have to try to explain this to the friend for whom I bought this.  The picture shows the characters, but the description did not describe that.
"The Torn Skirt" is S.E. Hinton's "The Outsiders" brought into the new century, without the compassion of S.E. Hinton but with all the freedoms of our time. That means using street language at every opportunity, graphic sexual scenes, and disjointed views by the 16 year old narrator.  I will be reading Rebecca Godfrey's non-fiction book. I have faith that this author can deliver a story I am interested in. "The Torn Skirt" was simply utterly without hope and human connection (which I think was the point).
Book could have been good but just didn't really please me. Author has great talent but this book just falls short. I seen the cover and name and it seemed like a book I would love. I felt that there was really no plot and it was kinda hard to follow at times. The author did not use quotation when people spoke making it kinda hard to read. Would not recomend to read. I read around a book a week or more and was disappointed at the ending. It left me hanging and angry that I don't know what happened. The ending was also unrealistic.
I was kind of dissapointed. I read all the reviews and the idea sounded wonderful, but when I started reading it I was a little disappointed. Ever have one of those books in the corner that you start and you keep thinking "I want to finish it.." but you never do? That's the authors fault, not yours. I remember one part where Justine first meets her, and she is suddenly asking the main character if she wants to go to a crazy party with her, out of nowhere. Just seems really unrealistic, and when you read it you feel as if your blind to something, like the character is looking at the ground 80 percent of the time, and looks up every once in a while. Sorry, i really wanted to like this book but found that I couldn't.
This girl didn't really do anything that bad. And it was just unrealistic with the whole parenting situation.
I devoured the first seven books of this series.  The stories were engaging and brilliantly told.  I'm afraid Poldark may have jumped the proverbial shark with The Stranger from the Sea.  I skimmed over pages and pages of politics and the art of war to get to the parts about the actual characters.  I agree with the other posters who commented that it seems like this book wasn't even written by Winston Graham and the personalities of the characters seem to have changed.  I have hope for the final three novels, but not much.
Eh. I'm more than a little disappointed. If you like the "Go Ask Alice" type of thing, this is the book for you. I didn't care for that one either. The whole time I was reading "The Torn Skirt" I kept thinking to myself, 'is this repetitive melodrama or is it just me?'
I had high expectations for this book and I bought it off amazon.com hoping it was going to be good. I was wrong. At first I thought the book was just off to a slow start and would eventually get better. I read the book in about a week and found hardly any improvement in it's entertainment value. I would have checked it out from the library except there wasn't a copy that wasn't lost. Although there were some decent parts, it wasn't enough to make me think this book was worth the money it costs. If you really want to read this book, buy it used.
I am a fan of the POLDARK series since the 1970's.  I wanted to know what happened to everyone after Elizabeth died.  I am so glad the author was still alive at the time and was still writing books, well he wrote this one and I was disappointed.  But I have to ask myself, if Jane Austen wrote this book would I still be disappointed?  I was expecting more action because  I expected it from the author but it was more of a Jane Austen type of book.  I won't read any more books concerning Poldarks children.  It just is not that interesting.  I just feel more at peace now that I know everyone went on after Elizabeth died. I just had to know.
I felt the other books were more interesting
The description said pocket edition but I was sent the full size version. Not happy with that since it is too heavy to pack in backpack.
I truly enjoyed the first two books in this trilogy.  However, this third installment seemed to wander off the path more than just a little bit.  First of all, Tal is not the protagonist; that role is filled by the antagonist of the first novel in his journey of redemption.  It is plausible...not likely...but plausible that this could happen.  And the resolution is covered too quickly, almost as if Mr. Feist no longer wanted to be involved with this storyline.  I very nearly put three stars, but I was just too disappointed after the first two books in the trilogy to give it an okay.  I was disappointed and felt let down.
ummm...it was really small.  The book is 4.75" by 3.25" and was shipped from Europe.  I have a hard time reading it but I guess it's meant to carry in your pocket, maybe?  Not for me.  The book jumps all over the place with general descriptions of things but not a lot of specific "how to".
It started off really strong. Then it started to go down hill from there. I thought the main character who was supposed to be the villian seemed like a lot of other characters that he's written which was a disppointment. Really didn't like how Feist turned around the plot for the introduction of the his next series. Honestly he's done this before. Ugh will not be reading the next series.
Good information, but nothing you cant find online. its a decent book. but you could do some research online and probably find more info.
This was one of the most depressing books I have ever read.  While Taylor Caldwell was a prolific and popular writer of her time, this story is terrible.  The heroine has no redeeming qualities other than her unwavering belief in the ultimate goodness of people.  She is of course repeatedly disappointed, and victimized by the various people in her world.  There are no positive characters in this book...Everyone is out for themselves, even children.  I found myself very disturbed by the dark and uncharitable world view of this book.
Was disappointed that heroine considered suicide as a solution for her problems. Certainly not up to Taylor Caldwell's previous syories.
Laborious.  Author thought we needed to have everything repeated for us ad nauseum. Annoying characters.  Unsympathetic characters.  One demensional characters.  Belabored.  I will not want to read other book signing from this author.
too little of plot and character, too much preaching
I struggled to finish this book.  It might appeal to someone interested in political commentary.  Otherwise, I see little to recommend it. The book is dark and depressing with no truly likeable characters.  It just goes from one sad, depressing, horrible character and situation to another.  The author must have had her thesaurus open for every page as the language she used is often obscure and grandiose.
I have received many books that were considered good condition that were actually in very good to excellent condition.  This book was said to be in good condition and it was in poor to fair condition.  I am quite disappointed.
The book is too small
This minimalism style of writing exposes too much reliance on characters and events from previous books with little descriptive detail of some promising locations. The action is thin as well, characters die frequently and quickly with little build up or detail. Character motivation is weak at times and contributes to an arid experience with a predictable climax.
I did see the pictures illustrating the size,but after reading many of the reviews and hearing about the size I went forward on my buy. What a disappointment this book is 8"X 1 1/4" x 5"the small version is on eBay is so marked up I would call it a complete rip off for 150.00$ and up.
When you read a book you know that what are you reading is not 100% true, but when you start to read things that are completely wrong is another thing. For an example I have these questions:    Q. How many times could a man pay another man to kill somebody, the killer fails and the boss gives him another chance?    A. I don't know if the mob knows it but at least four times.    Q. Why the target man, who knows who is trying to kill him and he saw him in a restaurant after he was in danger and just say hello to him?    A. Because the target man likes to be in danger.    Q. When the target man has the opportunity to kill the one whom wanted to kill him why doesn't he?    A. Because something in his head didn't let him even if he had killed many men before.    And as the energizer rabbit, I can keep going and going and going, my advise is to skip this book.
Unlike most other books written by Jack Higgins, "Edge of Danger" suffers from several major problems. Rather than careful plotting and suspense, the narrative descends spectacularly into a series of uneven gunfights. While this makes for some reasonable- if shallow reading, the plot is further marred by the unerring success rate of the protagonist Sean Dillon (in one of many appearances) and his nigh-on invulnerability. The premise is simple: A nefarious, rich family with both Engliah and Arab heritage hatches a plot to overturn the world order while lining their pockets. As expected, ex-IRA Sean Dillion is pitted against the undertakings and is characteristically successful in thwarting their plans. While at times interesting, "Edge of Danger" is an uneven read, punctuated with frequent doses of shallow action and insufficient character development/description. What is initially an interesting premise is marred by the invincibility of Sean Dillion and the lack of any concrete narrative structure. "The Eagle has Landed" remains Jack Higgins's finest offering
This is not the pocket size version I was hoping to get. I have the normal size book already and wanted a smaller version like to ones I've seen in the reviews. I like this book but how do I get the product I'm looking for and return this one?
Jack Higgins may not be running out of his fascination with modern weapons, fine dining, glamorous women or the IRA but he appears to be slipping on plot and character development. Sean Dillon makes Doc Savage and Dirk Pitt look like pikers. And this curious extension of gentlemanly methods for attempting to kill one another -- sending a crazed assassin and then both sides meeting later at the Savoy to exchange notes -- strains credulity. Higgins has done some first-rate work. Had this been published twenty-five years ago, this might have made a difference. It wasn't and it doesn't.
I purchased this book expecting very good things.  I found the plot very thin and predictable.  There was very little suspense.  It almost seemed like an abridged version of a book where all the detail leading up was left out.  Also there didn't seem to be any character building or background to explain why these individuals would have such singleminded,  and on the surface stupid, behaviour.
Having read only one other Higgins book before (Cold Harbor), I hesitate, somewhat, to comment on the author's general talent.  However, this book has to be one of the worst I've read in some time.  I think the thing that got me the most was the dialog; unbelievably simplistic and totally formulaic.  "Damn, he said to Kate, "It's the Hazar Scouts, "  Puhleeze!  Not even an exclamation mark.  Many other examples could be given.  Now, assuming for the moment that the dialog was, say, written at greater than a 7th grade level, the plot is almost as bad.  The protagonists' reactions to their fellows getting knocked off  one-by-one is almost comic.  There's no depth here; just one simple vignette after another.  I wouldn't even want to compare this to Ludlum or Clancy (although Clancy's gotten a bit rough of late). A terrific waste of a good
I like Cornwell, can't get through this one though.
This is an 8.5x11 (magazine size) paperback copy of an abridged version of the C.S. Lewis classic  NOT the original. Independently Published. The cover art appears to have been printed from a low resolution digital image, and the giant page margins are a waste of space. I was hoping this would be a good primer for my 7YO, but was sadly disappointed.
I have been looking for an illustrated edition that I had seen several  years ago, which had a more complete story.
Bog standard plot and characterisation. Dissapointing.
the print is far too small
Meh. I love C.S. Lewis. He is an incredible theologian and is very articulate when it comes to explaining doctrines and ideasI have loved reading some of his non-fiction novels. However, I just don't care for him as a fiction writer. While the story has an incredible allegory to it, his ability to write a story is just bland. Beautiful ideas, but I don't care for his writing style when it comes to fiction.
I had checked this book out at the library, and thought it was great.  I ordered it here and thought it was the same book as the library.  However, when it arrived I find that it is not the full size book as the library had.  Instead, it is the same book in a 3"x5" format. Though I can make out the illustrations in the book, the print font is much too small for me to read.  The description of this book says nothing about the fact that it is not a regular sized book from what I could tell, so prepare to pull out your magnifying glass if you order this book here.
This is a tiny, tiny book.  It is very rudimentary in nature and appears to be written by a non-combat ops specialist.  Lots of talk about organizing the camp (pages and pages about it, actually), creating a hierarchy of command in a camp, and long drawn-out explanations of things that need no explanation; and much less about the nitty gritty of survival.
I didn't realize how small this was. The book is about 4"x3". My aging eyes can't read the small text. I may need reading glasses but I expected something a bit larger.
I'm sure this guide contains valuable information and the fact that I didn't check the product dimensions is my fault. After all, who doesn't expect a paperback book to be the size of a 3X5 notecard? The print is so small, I'd have to have a magnifying glass to read it. This is absolutely ridiculous.
Unfortunately a boring read.
Regardless of the quality of the book, the Kindle edition is fraught by typos, one and usually several on almost every page. Using "v's" for "y's" is one of the common mistakes but entire words are replaced by others. A professional publisher should be heartily ashamed of such a product. Was the book reproduced by a machine or what?
Don't like how small the book is i cant read it .
the book is too small,it was my fault for not checking the books size before ordering
Bought this based on reviews: I guess I missed something. This book is about 2" wide by 4" tall. If you have time, easy environment and glasses, it might be a thing for you. OK, OK, yes, it goes easily in a rucksack. And the information is there. But, if you're like me and want to graze, refer to, fold pages out and try; this ain't gonna get it. It's now sitting on my desk (the graveyard of lost things) which is not a good place for anything I actually use. A book more akin to a "workbook" would be far more useful...to me.
Ok book by one of my favorite authors. Ready for a re read of this goog book is that enough
I did ot care for this book.  I found it to be boring Not current enough for my liking I just didn't like it
I know I'm the odd person out here, because virtually all the reviews are favorable & some consider this work a "classic", but, frankly, I didn't like this book.  And, mind you, I like war novels & have read many of them.  This book is unrelievedly gloomy & depressing & gets more so as the book goes on.  There is way too much description & not enough conversation.  Contrary to what several reviewers said, I found the character development weak to nonexistent.  There were some interesting characters & I would have liked to know more about them, but the characters took second place to endless descriptions of the weather & damage reports.  I plowed through it because I thought it was my duty to do so, but really, I found this book disappointing.
When I bought the book i didn't know that it is a pocket sized, A little pocket. If I'd knew I would not bought it. That is the bad thing. Now we move on to the good things: 1. The book is easy to use and to carry. 2. Very informative. 3. If you put a magnifying glass in your survival kit than you probably won't have any problem at all.
Received the wrong version. It isn't the one pictured when you make the purchase. This is so aggravating!!!!
I expected to find solid adult historical-fiction from the early period of the Napoleonic Wars. Instead I got simplistic adventures, stock characters and a dopey narrative full of spies and Tigers and prison escapes and implausible derring-do. This reminds me of the old Flashman series of books that I thought was so clever when I was a kid. But those were satire. Unless Sharpe's Tiger is meant to be Young Reader fiction or is a tongue-in-cheek satire I have to assume that the author is an overrated hack who can write decent dialog but is totally clueless when it comes to plot or character.
The publisher should be ashamed of the shoddy proofreading. I've found fifty two typos in the first four chapters alone!  Which is a pity, because I love the character Richard Sharpe, and every typo pulls me right out of the story. As far as I'm concerned we should all get our money back!
Wow -- everyone loves this but me!  I don't get it -- I read Cornwell's Agincourt right before this book, and they're almost identical books.  Pretty much the same characters in the same situtation -- just 300 years apart.  The same lead character, the same female companion, the same strong leader, the same completely evil villian.....it really lacks creativity for me.  The good are completely good, and the evil are completely evil -- I've seen more balanced characters in a Steven King novel.  On top of that, the coincidences in this book are outrageous.  How many times can the hero and the villian happen to accidently run into each other all over India?  I enjoy learning about the British army and their battles in India, but the writing seems very lazy and schlocky to me.
I was expecting the literary equivilant of Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series, and was disappointed to learn that it was merely "good trash," O.K. for a vacation read, but just barely.  My interest in reading the rest of them evaporated.
Too complicated
I would give it 5 stars for the illustrations, but the story is changed so drastically from the original that Aslan is hardly recognizable. I was very disappointed.
most of it is common sense, nothing a 10 year old boy scout couldn't tell you.
I didn't realize it's pocket size, and maybe it says that somewhere but it is really very small print, hard to read without magnifier.
Poorly done.  Not what I was expecting.  Details are vague.  My USMC handbook was more comprehensive and relevant than this.
Plotline too farfetched for my taste.
I enjoyed the first 2/3 of this book, however the last third dragged on forever.  Some of the historical information about California was interesting.  I thought the ending was weak, overall I would not recommend this book.
Nah.  That guy didn't really know what he was talking about.  Boring and unrealistic.
Didn't catch my interest at all.  More of a narrative than a story.  I deleted it about half way through. Do not recommend
This is the first time I have read a book by this author (most likely the last).  Her style is too wordy for me and I skipped quite a bit of the prose. It started slow, got more interesting as it progressed but had one of the most disappointing endings of any book ever--which is why I will most likely not read this author again.  Too many loose ends, too many characters who served no purpose to the story and too disjointed. It had potential to be a great story but it just did not turn out that way.
The book is missing several pages. When I swipe between some pages there is a blank page. Then the next page that has text is somewhere else in the book, other than where the previous page with text left off.
How to review this book? I'm only a quarter of the way through and I love the engaging prose and the pacing of the story that Collins and LaPierre tell, but the Kindle version (purchased as of June 2017) is literally the worst I have ever purchased on Amazon and that is what brings me to this review. Nearly every single paragraph has a misspelling or punctuation error. If it were only one mistake per page I might be able to keep reading, but when it is almost every single paragraph it becomes so distracting as to become an actual hindrance to the book itself. You'll frequently come across a strange word and wonder if you're looking at some archaic English term, a transliteration from Hindi or Tamil, or yet another sloppy misspelling. It gets old. Real fast. I'm going to request a refund on the Kindle edition and will update this review once I receive a hard copy.
A woman pretending to be a man in the California Gold Rush, it should be a compelling story. It isn't.  It wastes 80% of the book on everybody's backstory, none of it really goes anywhere or ties together (despite clumsy attempts to superimpose connections) or goes anywhere. Then it has to end somehow so Allende ties a quick bow around the whole story with a series of random non-nonsensical coincidences & encounters.  If you're looking for a book that borrows from Steinbeck & Kerouac, but meanders until it falls completely flat, this is the book for you.
Had a few interesting rid bits, and inaugurating the times\\cultures.. but all in all never developed much. Waste of time/energy in my opinion.
I can't get into this book; there are so many anachronisms (language, manners) I hardly think it's worth continuing.  As an example, you have Jacob Todd arriving in Valparaiso in 1843.  The day after his arrival, we find him in conversation with two physicians on the subject of chloroform.  But chloroform hadn't even been DISOVERED in 1843, let alone "used by Queen Victoria". That incident actually occurred in 1853! Sloppy writing and rather dull characters.
We ordered a paperback to take on our trip, but received a hard cover which we returned. The actual book (accortding to my wife) rates five stars. She found it to be an exciting and remarkable time in modern history.
I should have known better than to buy a survival book written by a SAS soldier.  Where do you think these guys are usually stationed,  yup in Africa and other such countries.  This would be a great book if you plan on going there but generally speaking it is a waste of money if you are hunting big bucks in Minnesota.
I enjoyed the writing quite a lot, but the ending was a bust. Others on this site have said it: abrupt. No satisfaction after reading 400 pages. Allende disappoints her readers. I get the sense that she was writing rather meanderingly without a finale in mind. Pursuing subjects that interested her, she wove her yarn and then was stuck. Bummer.
It was hard for me to get into this book...but this wasn't the first time I've tried.  I guess it's just not my taste.
It's not really in color!! I got jipped!
I really wanted to like this novel.  It has so many elements that I like (strong female protagonist, historical setting, people from different cultures interacting, California), I thought it was a sure thing.  Unfortunately, I couldn't finish it.  The characters were boring and felt stiff and unreal.  I just could not bring myself to care about them.  There were also some costume anachronisms that, while not a huge deal, were annoying because they disrupted the mood of the historical setting.
This book was flat and boring -- reading this book seemed like chewing cardboard. Spare your brain cells the pain of this book.
not as beneficial as I thought it would be. There are other books which I like better for survival knowledge.
This book tells a story, but had no particularly interesting insights, no real content.  Was kind of like a gothic romance...  Reading it was like doing too-simple crossword puzzle - just something to pass the time.  This was my first Isabel Allende book.  I think I'll move on...
If anyone tries to throw my dog or cat in a cooking pot they will be the next meal ... for the dogs.
In the same series as prince Caspian and also a very magical story! I just couldn't put the book down when I started reading this one as well! All these Prince Caspian books are amazing!
I wouldn't recommend this book. It started off well and seemed to drag on in the middle and then ended abruptly with many loose ends. I thought that many aspects of the story were undeveloped, while others were drawn out. The abrupt ending left me very frustrated and unsatisfied, with many unanswered questions. It actually seemed like she got tired of the story and didn't know how to end it.  I bought this book because I had enjoyed "Portrait in Sepia" so much that I assumed that this book would be equally enjoyable, but it really wasn't.
I read 400 odd pages for that ending?!  I enjoyed the characters however there were too many of them for the author to thoroughly explore.  The end of the book was abrupt - seemed as if she had used up her word count and had to finish the book in a hurry.  And similarly the fantastic locations (Chile, California and China) were only touched on.  A very frustrating read.
Rather generic and poorly organized.
I LOVE Hunter S. but this book was more of a documentary than his Gonzo experience that I am used to. Not a bad book but not one I really enjoyed.
A friend bought me this book because she liked it so much, and I read it on a cross country flight. It was okay, but Allende seems to be losing her touch. The characters were pretty dull, the plot ever duller, and it's obvious that Allende didn't bother to do any research on the era. Are we to believe that Eliza could spend years roaming the gold fields of California disguised as a man, and no one notices? Or suspects? First she passed as a Chinese boy, and now as a full grown man? .... It is also a little unbelievable that she even would take off to find her lost lover, considering how sheltered she's been, and that she is an all around weak character. And the ending just leaves you. The book literally, just ends. We have no closure, no resolution, have no idea what became of any of the characters. Even if Allende had been preparing to write a sequel at the time, every book in a series needs to be able to stand on it's own. And really, who would want to read the sequel of this. One round was enough.
Allende's book is about an abandoned girl who was raised up by an English family living in Chile. When she grows up, she falls in love with a Chilean boy who later decides to go to California in search of gold. The young girl then travels to San Francisco to find the boy and resume their love story. The plot, as you see, is not very original although the end certainly is: there isn't any.
Dated for today riders
First time I have read this author - very disappointing ending.  The book just stopped. Way too many loose ends and no sense of closure.
Not a great writer
I had high hopes for this book.  Other Oprah Picks that I have read have been good.  This book -- taking place in both Chile (exotic to me) and California (always interesting) seemed promising.  It is sort of a sappy love story, though.  A book equivalent of the "chick flick" for sure (and I am a woman).  I don't like to read books that are so clearly only appropriate for one gender.  If you like "love stories" with little else to them, this will be a small step up from the usual drivel because Allende does write well.  If you prefer books with any substance, however, steer clear of this one.
My daughter has finished the book.. however before.she even got to the 12th chapter.. her book fell apart.. she is a fast reader so she had only read her book a matter of 8 days.. when she wasn't reading it was put up in a drawer.. This isn't my first disappointment. I have purchased 3 android tablets in the past that only lasted 2 months each at the most. I couldn't return because I didn't buy the warranties.. so now I have 3 unworking tablets, and a book I will have to replace before her book report is due because she has to show.it for display..  I'm sad to report we won't be buying from amazon.com any longer. I put only 2 stars for the fact that each item I have purchased from Amazon.com made my kids temporarly
Too chaotic and scatter-brained to be interesting.  This was not a rewarding read, though I have enjoyed thompson's writing in the past, the lack of focus became quickly tedious.
Disappointing.  Missing is the magic of her other books, both in the plot and in the style.
Thompson is way too overrated the book is stuck in the 50s/60s really doesnt age well.
While I've seen the movie Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas, I had never read a Hunter S Thompson book before.  I wasn't super impressed, just not my style.  Was interesting enough overall, but at time i got a bit bored when it was bogged down in more journalistic reporting of stats. Almost like an extremely long newspaper article at times.
I like Hunter S. Thompson as a writer.... I like his way of writing... But this book was just a bunch of bull ****.. I stopped reading halfway through the book.
Daughter of Fortune was "somewhat" capturing in the first half of the book, then it started to drag. The rest of the way, I was struggling to get through the next chpaters, hoping it would be more fulfilling. I was then forced to read it to the end since I had put so much time and hope into it.  The ending was abrupt, and disappointing, leaving me empty and frustrated!
Very old seemed outdated to me !
Interesting but a little dated. The stories could be a little more fleshed out.
I think I expected more from such a big name author. With such a big name title I also expected more. Seemed a little team.
I've loved previous Isabel Allende works, and the beginning of this book  has all the promise of its predecessors.  Unfortunately, the book quickly  shifts into a "wild west" cliche, with plot twists that are  unbelievable, characters that don't deliver, and endless pages of  "California gold rush" descriptions that are unoriginal and  ultimately, boring.  I found this book to be a real disappointment,  especially from a gifted writer such as Allende.
You better have binoculars for eyes if you want to read it. Im sure this was done for portability but if you cant read it whats the point. This is about the size of a pack of cigarettes.
Not nearly what I had hoped for.
Outdated, and therefore just not that interesting.
This book was not was I was lead to believe it was.  It was very high level and basically jumped around to areas such as desserts, tropics and areas that I will not be traveling to.  I expected more basic survival techniques and was disappointed once I began reading it.  I'm sure this is an excellent book if this is what you are looking for but not what I expected at all.  Thanks.
Usually a big fan of Allende, I have been known to rave about her books for months after reading them because of the compelling stories and the lovely prose.  This time something did not click. It is neither  charming/captivating nor interesting.  I may not be able to finish this  one.  It is a pity Oprah did not catch on to Allende when Paula was  published.
This book was about conditions during the California gold rush and not about a young girl looking for her love.  Many characters were introduced and dropped, the reader had to come up with their own conclusion. To many  lose ends.  The author went over and over the same areas involving views of  immigrants and miners during the gold rush and got boring after a while.  I  was very disappointed in the last part of the book.  When I finally  realized I wasn't going to be rewarded at the end of the book I just  skimmed the last 40 pages. Waste of my time.  I didn't take any of the  characters with me.  Every character was a stereo type of their culture and  ethnic group.
The book is very informative and just right for my purposes.
Questions unanswered. What  happen to Mama Fresia. When will Eliza find out Miss Rose is on her way to California? There is another whole story, which should include reactions when they find out it's Miss Rose writting  the Pornagraph Books.
For a book as hyped as this, by an author as hyped as Hunter S Thompson, it was, in a word, naff. Sadly, the more one reads about the outlaw, the less mystical, brave and brotherly it becomes, especially when they're accompanied by the likes of Thompson. In short, unless you really love outlaw motorcycle clubs and really hate your free time, don't bother.
Taking a page from her roots as a translator for Barbara Cartland novels from English to Spanish, Allende spins another romantic novel in the same mold as her previous works. A decent work, but certainly not 'brilliant' or  'genius' as many editorials have proclaimed. Provocative and sensual, yes.  Angela Carter, no. She perhaps has some genius in cashing in on a distant  relative, Salvador Allende, by keeping the name through marriages.  If you  have never read a book by her, please read this, you won't need to pick up  another as they vary quite little in depth and scope.
For as many pages I read, Daughter of Fortune came to a weak climax, and in my opinion never had an ending. It seems like Allende got tired after part 3 and just put her pen down and sent it off to the printer. As other  reviewers before me stated, there were to many unfinished story lines! I've  got to say, despite my criticisms,  that if another book came out  completing the tale of Eliza Sommers, I'd buy it.
Having to read this book for a book club was the only reason I got beyond the first 100 pages of this poorly crafted book.  After reading Memoirs of a Geisha and The Poisonwood Bible ( two of the best books I have read in a  year), this was an enormous disappointment.  I felt the character  development was shaky and with so many "life stories," I was at  times unclear who the protagonist was.  I never felt myself rooting for  Eliza (was she the main character! ).  I find it disappointing when all of  the love stories begin with love at first sight...seems a bit Danielle  Steel-ish to me.  Too many countries, experiences, ethnicities, cultures,  and characters...just develop people that I want to know more about and the  story becomes a rich part of their experience.
Just okay.
This book is not a narrative at all. It's like reading a police report. A lot different from Thompsons later work. It's really not bad but I couldn't finish it. I found it boring. I only got about 100 pgs deep though. Maybe it picked up after that.
Disappointed. I wish I had seen the description about the size of this book. It is tiny. It was a gift. Dad wanted to know where the magnifying glass was. I will read the details more carefully next time. This book will not be used. Probably go in the trash.
not a bad story just hard to follow, the book kinda jumps arouund and the language is pretty hard to follow i don't know if he was going for what was said verbatem or just poor editing
This book was interesting, but I was a little disappointed that it had less of Thompson's signature voice of insanity, and was more of a detached piece of journalism on the Angels. There was a good angle about the media frenzy that unfairly characterized the bikers as maniacs, and a lot of investigative journalism that almost nobody else would have been crazy enough to undergo, but those people looking for a colorful Thompson memoir should look elsewhere in his catalogue. They can read about the Angels on Wikipedia.
Had I known the print was so small i would never have ordered this book. Even with my glasses I could not read it so I had to buy another with larger print. Wasted money.
Too obsolete in to many subject areas.
My review might be slightly bias because I'm not a huge fan of the author. I can't "get into" his style of writing. I purchased this book and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas and was unable to finish either book. The first time I have ever broken my "always finish the book" rule. I felt, in some cases, he was too wordy and that it didn't add to the mental picture I was creating in my head as I read. I would definitely preview this work before purchasing to make sure that you like his style.
This book was OK. There were a lot of parts that i just scanned when Lavigne was talking about the interworkings of the Federal and State Law Enforcement because i simpley don't care. Tait is a top notch scumbag as well.  He didn't do any of it for the greater good, just to make a name, and his desire to go into law enforcement.  If he wasn't an informant, he would have been no different than any of them, maybe worse.  The one thing i did like was the taped church meetings.  For the first time we know what they were talking about at Local, Coastal, USA, and World Meetings.  The author was definately biased, and to claim he is the top Hells Angels advisor is rediculous.  Also he says they started from the Boozefighers MC when they actually stared from the Pissed of Bastards MC.  Isnt as good as other books out there. Read Williams Queens book 'Under and Alone'.
I got the book and it did not have the same cover as indicated on the website and the ISBN number was one digit off. Not a big deal except for the fact that our child's school required an exact match on the ISBN.
This book is for true survival in the wild. I was really looking for more basic stuff but hey at least I'll be prepared !!
Basic but also somewhat outdated.
This is not one of Agatha Christie's best.  She wrote it as an international spy thriller, but started out with a main character whom she abandoned halfway through the story to focus on governmental spy leaders who weren't nearly as interesting. She developed the main character's story to a certain point and then dropped that plot in order to resolve the international conflict via a kind of medical/scientific dues-ex-machina device, and finally brought back her main character and his love interest for a quick wedding in the final chapter.  I love Agatha Christie, but I don't know what happened with this book. I still enjoyed it, though!
I love Agatha and the beginning of this story was full of promises. The second half left me high and dry. Was she cornered by her editor's deadline? Or was she already building her next book, losing interest in this one? Whatever, "only a mediocre person is always at his best" and I will keep reading her books, dreading the day I reach the last one.
I am a big fan of Christie in general, but this is one of her later novels that falls into the "nothing is the same since The War" category. If you have read a number of her books, you can definitely see a tendency for her post-war novels to have these themes: the Kids Have All Become Violent, No One is Who They Say They Are, and Civilization is Just Going To Hell Generally. This novel is one of the latest and worst examples of this post-war group. A barely believable spy story is interwoven with endless chapters of men in a room discussing the direness of the situation. Christie wrote some stellar novels, even some that changed mystery literature forever, but stay away from this one, it's pretty worthless.
Sorry, but I was disappointed in this book.  The American Boy Scout manual was on par, if not better, and more readable.
I agree with those reviewers that believe that this is not Agathat's best work, far from it. Her foray is mystery and this books attempts to be a thriller, which doesn't work at all. I cannot say that the writing is bad but this entire book is just not interesting. Her other books that have to do with world organizations are much better although also couldn't be compared to her regular setting of a family murder. So much of the plot just doesn't make sense and apart from the three main characters everyone else remain hazy, which is never the case in any of her other books. I have the entire collection and must say that this is her most unsuccessful literary attempt.
Nothing about the story. Just the quality of this book is really bad, I won't call it a hard cover. Not really, really it is not! I am sending it back.
It was rather shallow.
So tiny that we fell out laughing when it arrived. Carefully read the description.
I thought that the information in this ebook would be user friendly.
a do not recomend this book i do not like it all if your planning to buy it return it. my dad made me read it so bad
This the micro-sized version.  I looked at the description and placed the order, didn't see anywhere that it was made for the G.I. Joe action figures. Better order a set of spectacles with it!
"Unespected Blessings "is filled with past writing of Emma Harte and her huge family. Why do we have to again hear how each person in this novel is related to Emma and how beautiful they are and how they love each other. Also what wonderful houses they live in, in detail, teeth grinding detail. If I want to decorate a house, I wil buy a decorating book. Also as the head of a large family, Emma does not set much of a role model, with her children born out of wedlock and her living with a married man for many years. I wonder if we are going to read about her great, great, great, grandchildren and their  love affairs which also will  produce children without marriage. The time that she really got hold of a interesting plot, was the World Trade Center, which was written off  immediately after Shane's part was disclosed. Going back to Emma in the final chapters is a page filler, is there anything we have left to learn about her? At the wedding, more time is devoted to thedescription of the brides dress than to the horrible problems that exist right outside the church door. Will Dusty and India marry? Will Tessa last with Jean-Claude until her divorce? Will Evan and Gideon have their marriage before she gives birth? Who cares? I hope Ms Bradford has all the money she needs, she deserves it, she is a wonderful author, this was an un-necessary  book. If you have never read Ms Bradford, go back to " Woman of Substance" and start at the beginning.
Haven't read it yet, I'm sure it's full of useful knowledge, however, it should say in the main line of the product name that this book is really little, in fact it is annoying to handle or read. I expected a larger size of book-like a normal paperback.
I am only half way through it and am struggling. I feel as if she loaned her name out to a new author or something. There is alot of repetition in the book and the characters are lifeless. Mind you, I couldn't write a book but I sure know what I like to read. I have read all the other books about Emma Harte but I loved them but if I have to read one more time about Emma's philosophy, which is repeated alot in this book, I might scream. I will get to the end but I certainly will think twice about getting the next one.
I did finish the book, so I guess it wasn't all that bad, but it didn't seem to have much purpose and it wasn't that entertaining or interesting.  Despite the list of 'characters' at the beginning of the book, there are simply to many folks and generations to keep track of.  Usually I like this type of book, this one was disappointing.
I didn't realize this was the diminutive pocket size. Too small to comfortably read. It would be great for the car glove box or stashing somewhere.
I reluctantly gave this book 3 stars because there is no 2.5 star rating. I found this book very elementary. Its good if you don't know anything and do not possess much common sense. It tries to cover every iota of survival which is the reason it is so thick. Most of the information offered is common sense stuff. I also found that much of the things I have learned over the years were not to be found. For instance simple things like the use of cotton balls and Vaseline or lip balm as a fire starter were not mentioned in the book. The sea survival chapter recommends that if in the water and to avoid attracting sharks: If you have to defecate you must throw it a far as possible. Well, that might not be as easy as it sounds. How about just swimming away from it? If you vomit the book recommends that you swallow it back down! I guess then you wait until you have to vomit again. Why not just say that human waste attracts sharks? One thing I did like was the color pics of the plants and animals although some pics were inaccurate like the pic of the funnel web spider. What you're shown is not a funnel web spider but something similar to a garden spider. Shortly after starting to read the book I found spelling errors. Not expected in a carefully laid out best seller. All in all a disappointment for me but OK for newbies.
Honestly if you're not between the ages of 7- 10 you should not waste your time with this book. I mean really what was all the hype about. Where's the magic, the most magical moment for me was where the witch conjures up some Turkish delight I mean is this C.S Lewis finest use of imagination, a tool which is unlimited and free. Where's the action. And what was all this stuff about biblical analogies (unless you include the phrase "Son of Adam and Daughter of Eve") .For all I know Enid Blyton could have written this, for Christ's sake even Santa Claus makes an appearance in this book. I was so disappointed in this book I could not continue till the end.
i hated this book it had no action or suspence.when lucy and susan get to the war at the end its already over.this is a boring book the only part i liked is when edmund got captured by the white whitch.
Bought this book on several glowing recommendations.  I have found the book to be full of typographical errors that are often quite confusing.  I would expect that from a cheap e-book, not a bestseller.  The information itself isn't bad per-say, but isn't revolutionary by any means.  I am reading this as a novelty more than anything now, picking out bits of useful information as I go.
"The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe" did not ignite any excitement within me.  I had no expectations for this book, so luckily, I have not been let down in one form or another.  I am not fond of mystical/fantasy books, and I could not get caught up within this world of Narnia.  I found the action to be lacking, as it was described in short paragraphs, rather than shown, and I did not see any point to it. It is written very juvenilely, so it is easy to read.  I did think the end was rather clever, but it did not faze me enough to read the rest of the series.  I do not recommend.
For what you get, this is a good story.  But, I thought I was buying the book in it's entirity.  I guess I need to read between the lines.
Not nearly what I was expecting. Maybe due to my not paying fine attention to the details but definitely a pocket sized guide. Not that helpful nor what I was hoping for.
While the illustrations in this Book are great, the text is not the actual text of C.S. Lewis. The book is written "BASED ON" the Narnia. Well, the story here is a little twisted which makes a huge difference in the understanding of the main thrust of the narration. Aslan is depicted weak and impotent and redemption story is not evident from the text. Otherwise, if you know the true story, the pictures are worth the money. (You may have to use quite a bit of whiteout on this one.)
After getting this book, I felt as though it was an olde times boys scouts manual and although a lot of the informatin is useful, it's nothing that really isn't common sense (ie. Stay out of the sun when hiking, etc). I hope this becomes useful some day, but until then I'd say it was not worth anything above $4-5
returned it.  it is printed as a very small book which makes sense for taking in a bug out bag or whatever, but it is really hard to read.  i returned it .  maybe they make it in large print...ha ha
Overall this book is packed with useful information and laid out in an easy to use format. The deal breaker for me (and why it only gets 2 stars) is the section on firearms. Basically the author being British says "don't even think about owning them you'll just hurt yourself". This is obviously false and potentially dangerous advice meant for subjects of the crown and not free men and women serious about their short and long term survival. While I agree too much emphasis is typically placed on firearms as just a piece of overall survival this book lays out the exact opposite. Its the sort of ultra-liberal elitist dribble that encourages women to urinate on themselves when they are about to be sexually assaulted to ruin the mood as opposed to empowering them to train on and carry a firearm to stop the threat permanently. If you are better than I am at overlooking this flaw then you will probably greatly enjoy the rest of this book.
... but only if you like so called 'timeless classics' that don't have any action! I tried to read this book once, and I kept pushing myself to finish it, but I could not! It was just so boring and strange. Edmond's a jerk - I mean, if you saw a strange person riding about on a carrige pulled by reindeer, would you stop and ask them if you could have turkish delight? Gosh. Now I am being forced to read this book in Lit Lab. I want to protest, but I like the teacher too much.
I remember reading this book for school and being very excited about reading a classic.  I also remember being very disappointed in it, though I probably couldn't have said why.  Remembering this, I decided to try it again now that I'm older.  And I still don't like it.  The characters were one dimensional, you don't get to know them at all.  It seems to be written by someone who thinks children are innocent little idiots who will be fascinated by anything with talking animals.  There was also far more Christian allegory than I ever realized the first time I read it, not a bad thing necessarily, but it wasn't all that skillfully done.  The main problem I had with it was that I cannot love a book without loving the characters, and these left me cold.  It has none of the inventiveness of, for instance, the NIMH books, and made me wonder why CS Lewis ever tried writing for children when he is so ill-suited, though there are hundreds of reviewers who would disagree.
clasic must have   would prefer a better harlinnen cover like the old version and a smaller copy .. as aftr 1 week the cover and clue let go
I wanted to read about him starring in The Chronicles of Narnia: The Silver Chair as The Marshwiggle "Puddleglum" but he didn't and I am so disappointed.
Not very insightful. Of course I was hoping to expound on my USMC training and learned nothing new. City people might find it helpful.
It's a portable book, just slightly larger/thicker than a deck of playing cards. That's good. But the bit about "for any climate, in any situation" in my opinion is not a good feature. Perhaps this guide has room aboard a plane or a lifeboat. It does have some useful info, but anyone who may find themselves in those remote areas of the world had better learn those skills in advance - they'll want a more detailed guide.  Those of us who were looking for a pocket guide for their "go bags" would find it more useful to have something specific to our geographical zone, i.e. US Northeast or Midwest or US South, etc. Several versions would be good.  I would rather have: either a book that is half as thick, but with only temperate climate info. OR a book of the same size with more attention to edible plants of our area, more bushcraft and survival info. Maybe better diagrams of traps, etc.  I don't doubt the expertise of the author(s), but the usefulness of the book IMHO is limited. I bought 2 (for each go bag) and am considering returning them - wish I knew what else to buy.
Gimmicky
Man and Wife was a sequel to Man and Boy.  It suffered the same sequel syndrome, telling a similar plot with different characters.  In the first book, Harry's father died of cancer.  In this book, his mother had breast cancer but survived.  In the first book, Harry had a one-night stand that triggered his divorce.  In this book, Harry was close to have an affair, in fact, it was as good as having an affair minus sex, and his second marriage was on the verge of collapse.  In the first book, Harry got jealous with Gina's new boyfriend and subsequently her husband.  In this book, Harry got jealous with Cyd's business partner. If I had not read the first book, this book might be interesting.  However, having read the first book, this sequel looked too suspiciously similar thus lost the originality.  I was quite put off with the flip-flopping of Harry with his life.  He was always on the verge of making the same mistake again.  In the end, Harry exhausted our sympathy and became a jerk in our eyes.  He appeared to be a whim, unlike Kazumi who took the break-off with such dignity, unlike Cyd who tried to build something of her own.  These 2 ladies had the courage to look forward but Harry was always looking at the past, always so insecure.  In the end, I felt that it would be just a matter of time before history repeated itself in Harry's life. This sequel could be more promising if the author tried to have new angle for plot twists, instead of copying the old formula.  I like the first book much more.
I found them very boring. I am sorry I got them! I would not likely recommend them! Give a better outline so one know what to expect.
SAS Survival Handbook, Revised Edition: For Any Climate, in Any Situation, easy to understand, good information and recommended to all
I thought most (virtually all) of the characters were unappealing, so I never could care about them enough to wade through the book.  The title made little sense to me; the plot jumped around too much as well.  For readers who want to go ahead:  (a) ask somebody who understands India to explain the circumstances, the scene, and (hopefully) the plot;  (b) write down all the names of the characters (some appear to be multiple names) and their relationships, as a reference -- can prove very useful.
I have tried to read this book no less than half a dozen times and have not been able to get past the first two chapters. I've heard great things about it so really wanted to read it, but I think I am done trying with this one.
I found this book hard to read & a bit boring.  There were too many unneeded details.  Plot was too easy to guess.
This is a review of the audio book read by Sarita Choudhury.  The reader's emphasis and cadence are consistently awkward, as if she were reading it for the first time and without comprehension.  This is a book whose beauty and heartbreak are built on prose.  Read the book; avoid the audiobook.
Waste of money. You live and you learn. You're not gonna survive and say "Thank god I had the SAS Survival Guide!" You're better off remembering the basics of fire starting and shelter making on your own and using your money on Bic lighters.
I actually did not like it. I felt it was too ethnic. I don't like novels that try to cramp all folkloric habits, behaviors and traditions in a novel.
This was the most convoluted story I have ever read. I don't know which book these other reviewers were reading in order to give those glorified reviews, but it wasn't this one. All through the book we are subjected to the author's 'flashbacks', but they are never clear and coherent. You may be reading about a situation in one year and the next page, you will be in a different year or month entirely, with no fluidity to it. Many, many times we are aware of a situation that occurs and then the next page it goes back to where the situation hadn't occurred yet. Even the ending was like that. Now, I normally love flashbacks, if done correctly and fluently. This book is an example of what NOT to do regarding those. I consider myself an above average intelligent woman and I read 3 to 5 books a week, fiction, non-fiction, biographies, etc. I don't normally leave reviews unless the book is either extremely good or extremely bad. This book is definitely the latter. I won't be reading anything by this author again.
Of course this book won the Booker Prize.  It checks all the boxes:  Exotic Location, Children At Risk, Forbidden Love, Society In Political Turmoil, Lush Descriptions Of Verdant Nature, dustings of Magical Realism,  Culture Clash, Tangled Time Lines,  Abruptly Shifting Viewpoints, and even Twins Reunited After A Long Separation (Im usually a sucker for stories about twins, but I make an exception in this case.)  It took me  more than three attempts and some serious lectures to myself to get through this book.  The jumping back and forth in time and viewpoint  got me lost so many times.  The multiple characters cover four generations, with overlapping histories, and multiple comings and goings, divorces, disappointments, and deaths.  I had a hard time figuring out who I was supposed to be caring about.  Its clever writing.  It checks all the boxes., but it lacks heart.
not a great survival handbook. lots of info for sure but no detail. tried to cover every aspect but short on instructions. I would not recommend. book assumes people are already semi trained in many things. kinda vauge.
I should have known better as there is something about the Booker Prize winning works that I do not enjoy. SPOILER ALERT, I did not want to read about bad cops hurting good people and didn't expect that would be the main story. I did not enjoy reading about what they did to the poor guy. I also did not enjoy the child drowning for no good reason. While the technique of jumping around alot may make a story more interesting, I wasn't so fond of that either. That said, I find it fascinating that the thing that got Roy in trouble with the government was the inter-cultural love scene, but that is not part of the book, rather a part of Roy's life.
This is not the Op-Center I am use to.  It took about 20 chapters to actually get into the book.  Steve Pieczenik does an Auto Biography from everyone from the United Nations Janitor to just about everyone in Pol Pots Renegade Army.  Op Center isn't mentioned much until Chapter 28.  The only one that is really mentioned in this book about Op Center is Paul Hood.  I put this book down 4 times because I was loosing Interest and had to fight to pick it up again.  The other Op Center books i bought keep you in the book from start to finish but not this one.  Save your money and skip this one, Its a joke.  It will end up in the recycle bin, I hope Steve wrote this book on a Friday, because that will explain the poor job he did on it.
Too confusing and depressing. None of the characters were likeable.
I rarely do not finish a book, but I abandoned this one about two thirds of the way through.  Too many characters with too difficult names to remember or pronounce and a story filled with whole chapters about basically nothing of any interest or meaning as far as I could see.  Perhaps other readers will enjoy the style, but I did not.
I simply could not get into this book, it's characters seemed disjointed and the story convoluted and hard to follow.  I had not read anything by this author and guess I won't in the future either.  Discussed this with another read-a-holic and she said the same thing but is putting this book away for another day.  Not me.
I don't typically take the time to review many books, but I read this for my book club and really disliked it.  The writing was very choppy and disjointed.  I didn't understand the capitalization of random words and the story just was not intriguing enough.  I did like how the author weaved in aspects of India that many are unfamiliar with, but the story and characters did not pull me in.  The writing style was definitely a distraction rather than facilitating the telling of the story.
Very small book, much smaller than I would/could have expected. It is almost hard to flip the pages and hard to read the words/see pictures. The content is great, but the physical book is too much of a pain.
I had to read this academically and couldn't get through it. I told my professor that I just wasn't comfortable with the sexual assault and asked to not participate.
Some of the paragraphs are assembled artfully, but the story is dull, and the narrative is confusing.  Many readers insist that they wanted to re-read the book; maybe because they couldn't figure it out the first time.
A book saturated with simile and metaphors, adjectives and descriptions of Kerala, India and its people. It describes so much of the beauty, but also the lurid ugliness of humanity. The writing is ornate and the plot jumps unexpectedly between 1969 and the present. This is not a leisurely holiday read. Take your time with it.
I struggled to read this turgid tome... Never was able to.
Could not finish it.  Very hard to keep track of the situations and the people.
Did not care for the book. Could never tell who was narrating. Finally decided it was an omniscient narrator. Had no empathy for any of the characters.
This book was not as good as I expected having thoroughly enjoyed his previous short story collections.  Seeing as more than half of the stories are based on real life events, the creativeness and originality I have come to expect from a Jeffrey Archer short story were just not there.  The stories came across basic and predictable, except for the few stories that were original.  Actually quite a disappointing read overall.
These stories would remain unpublished without Archer's name attached to them. Older writers need to know when to call it quits before dragging out every lame bit of narrative they have laying around the house. To Cut a Long Story short is perfect evidence of the fact that big publishers sell safe, well-know names not stories of true quality. Pity. Most of these are "based on actual events" so they are not even original creations of Archer's -- just junk pulled from newspaper headlines and turned into snooze fiction.
Not sure why this book is so highly regarded, the majority of the information is obsolete and inaccurate.  Beside the section on edible plants I did not find much usuable information in this book.  Most of it seems to be geared towards surviving if your plane crashed down in the arctic- seriously there is advice about how and where to club seals.  Almost every section of the book warns you to "stay with the wreck as long as possible".  I am just guessing that this is not the type of survival info most people are after but maybe I am wrong.  I thought the shelter building section was pretty bad and most of the technics were not usable in North America, we do not have banana leaves in great abundance to weave a roof for a shelter.  There was also a lack of follow through in much of the guidance, a lot of important detail was missing making it hard to really comprehend  some of the technics.  This book was mildly entertaining but not the book you want in your bug out bag, at least not the only one.
I valued a realistic view of rural India, but the inter-relationships of the main characters were really upsetting.  The gory details of poor personal habits and lack of hygiene were hard to deal with as well.
it was not my kind of book!
Confusing, back and forth in time without clarity.  Unclear plot.  No one to like.  Post-modernism at its worst.  Some good writing and description.
A couple of pages and napping. I find the writing style uninspired - kind of flat and ho hum - insipid may be the best description.
Okay storytelling but gimmicky use of language. It is trying so hard at points that it is painful. For a story that seems to focus so much on the inner life of its participants, the characters are fairly flat and unrelatable. I found it difficult to care about the fate of characters who are more symbolic than human.
My book club overwhelmingly disliked this book for its disjointed narrative structure. All recognized the literary reasons for the1996 Booker Award, but it's a dark story with no shred of light.
Surprised by all the good reviews, as I found this very dull and functional writing. None of the stories were overly interesting, clever or engaging. I was expecting a few twists and clever conclusions but was left unmoved by nearly all the stories. I wouldn't recommend this at all.
Although mercifully brisk and tightly written, the stories in "To Cut a Long Story Short" pivot shamelessly on the dustiest of mystery-genre cliches. One or two tickled my senses, but the balance triggered alarm bells of disappointment and regret.
I have enjoyed most of this authors books.  In this one he appears to have been writing in his sleep, the old "get up and grab the reader" is missing.  Perhaps he has too much on his mind with his personal problems. He should take a break, then come back and wow us with his earlier skills.
Boring!
The story in and of itself is not too bad, but it's the overly-idiosyncratic prose style that is a complete waste of time and space. It reminds me something of the "magical realism" technique to a certain degree. Ben Okri's "The Famished Road" (another dreadful Booker Prize winner), makes use of this style but is impressive whereas that novel has virtually no plot. "God" has a plot but it's completely undermined by the truncated sentences that aren't really sentences, the unnecessary repeating of words in phrases in new paragraphs, not to mention the lines of backwards gibberish that appear from time-to-time. Please skip this one.
I couldn't get into this book at all.we had it for our book club choice, and some members did enjoy it, but it was too disjointed for me. I didn't finish it.
I've heard some people that they enjoyed the book more on the second reading than the first time through.  This is probably true because it was hard to follow the story in the first read.  I thought the clever phrasing, the metaphors and the names given to ordinary things would have been more effective if there hadn't been so much of it.  Overall, there wasn't enough in the character development or the story that made me want to read it again.
This was selected for our book club. While the writing style is very descriptive/flowery, I would not have finished this book if selected on my own. Left an unfinished feeling about the main characters that may have been the authors intent due to the "unfinished" nature of the twins life.
Nowhere in the ad did it say it was miniature version. It is not what I expected. It is only the size of a very small book. Extremely dissappointed.
It bored me to death in the first 50 pages I did not read the rest. I don't like books that mentions 100 different people's names one after another, I cannot memorize them and I just couldn't keep focused. It just didn't do it for me.
I heard a lot about this novel but I didn't find interesting and motivating to read. I wish writer would have made little interesting to read.
This book is tiny and too small to read in an emergency.  The expense reflects the usefulness.  I am surprised it isn't a bit bigger so at least you could read it.
This looks like a book that English teachers would inflict on students because of its "brilliant use of language." And while I have to agree that there are some amazing phrases, the bulk of it is filled with overblown prose that adds nothing to the storyline - if you can find the storyline, that is. I got tired of looking, so quit before I got halfway through it. The author wanders down rabbit trails that have nothing to do with the story, and the characters are never developed enough to evoke any concern about what happens to them. I wanted to like this book, I just couldn't.
An admirably thorough book greatly diminished in impact by an unbearably dull writing style.  This is a book for academics rather laymen interested in Caesar.  When one has recently read history written by someone such as AJP Taylor, it is impossible to read a book as plodding as Meier's 'Caesar'.
Arundhati Roy wrote a very interesting story and has a good command of the language. Unfortunately, I was lost in the stream-of-consciousness style of writing. She jumped from person-to-person much like Virginia Woolf, without using the Woolfian sentence structure. If that's not difficult enough, I had to unravel the chronology. She jumps between two different time periods and often jumps again within the same time period. It made for a confusing mess, to say the least. Nonetheless, the plot lines are solid and the writing itself is solid.  If you understand Indian culture or have been to India, you would probably get a lot out of this book. If you have no interest in India, feel free to skip this one.
I do know why this Handbook is out of stock. I am ready to see if I can get my money back????
Hard to credit the hype surrounding this book.  Endlessly repetitive, rather silly word play, some scenic descriptions, but characters who never rise above banality of thought, word, or action.  Like so many novels published today, could be cut by a third or a half. "Post-colonial" so important on that account(?), but perhaps when the empire next writes back it can raise the intellectual bar and omit the sentimentality.
It was very difficult to keep track of the characters and their relationships.  If it weren't I had to finish it for a book club discussion I would have stopped reading it. Even though the story is compelling I found the writing style annoyingly and unnecessarily confusing.
The author gets credit for a heartfelt tale but I found the writing so overwrought and flowery.  So much so that it detracted from the story.  I'm all for metaphors but this book trys too hard with a barrage of wordage.  A perfect example of more is less.  Sorry, I wished I could have liked this book.
I did not enjoy this book. I judge a book, partially, by the distractions of the author's writing style and errors. This book is one distraction after another. I had great difficulty keeping track of the story line. The characters were not admirable or intriguing.
As a PhD student of literature and a lover of Indian literature in particular, I was very excited to finally find time to peruse this novel. While I understand that this book is critically acclaimed, I was extremely disappointed and actually dropped the book at page 270. Simply put, what could have been a great story gets lost in the author's attempt at fancy poesy and artfulness. Roy is about as far from straight forward as one can get. I kept hoping that if I continued to read on, I would hit pay dirt, but it never happened. The story gets lost under a mound of fanciful junk. I have only put down a handful of books in my lifetime without finishing them, and when I have, it was because the attempt to finish became futile because the interest simply ceased to exist. If you want to read a great book about Indian life, choose anything by Rohinton Mistry...you won't be disappointed. Thrity Umrigar and Padma Viswanathan are also noteworthy.
I disliked this book very much. From the beginning it never caught my interest. I love to read and I usually can't put a book down b/c I need to know what happens next. This book however I would need to take breaks from it because it was soo slow. If I shut that book at any point I never felt the need to finish it. I don't recommend it. It is very boring and drawn out.
Wow.  I don't feel like reading this book was a complete waste of my time, thus the two stars, but it was pretty darn close.  I read the book for my book club and everyone in the group felt the same way.  I found it to be extremely wordy...too wordy.  It was as if she was just writing to fill pages at times.  She overdescribed most everything to the point of obnoxiousness.  The story is interesting, and different for sure, but confusing at times as the extreme wordiness takes over.  Had she just told the story, I'd probably feel differently. My book club was left wondering, where was her editor?
I'm a very big fan of Rohinton Mistry and was hoping this effort by another Indian writer living in Canada might be similar in quality. It isn't. After just 20 pages, I was struggling to figure out what the plot might be, who was related to whom, and mainly, why I should care about any of the characters. After 40 pages .... I gave up. The writing isn't good enough to carry the book. The style jumps from literary to casual modern to just plain unpolished and rhythm-free. The characters are uncompelling. There isn't much of a story. Roy has a long way to go to match Mistry. I can't understand how this won the Booker Prize.
I'm beginning to the think the Booker Prize is the best reason NOT to buy a book. The God of Small Things didn't do it for me at all. I found it dull and affected. As another reviewer remarked, the similes are endless and, although they might sound good, for the most part are simply off target. Overrated tedium is perhaps the best way to sum up this book.
The story is true and very interesting, but Eric Williams made a couple of horrible mistakes in writing this.  One is that he changed the names of all the main characters and wrote it in third person.  It comes across as a novel rather then non-fiction and Williams has admitted that some of it was added at the insistence of his publisher to make it more exciting.  It simply isn't as good a book as it could have been.
I don't usually read books which won the Booker Prize, but this came highly recommended by a friend. Well, I did read it to the end. You do, with this one, as the characters catch hold of you and you want to know what happens to them. Still, at the close of the book, you wonder if there were any point to the story. This book reminds me of movies such as "House of Flying Daggers" by Zhang Yimou - absolutely beautiful cinematography but you find yourself wondering "What's the plot? WHERE'S the plot?"  Her language is poetic, and I especially appreciate the feeling of "coldness" she described. Still, not magical enough to warrant revisiting.
I had to read this book for school, which might be part of the reason I found it to be so bad. Usually, I'll read anything and most of the time won't have any complaints about it. I don't understand how this book won the Booker Prize. Many praise the language Ms. Roy uses; I found it to be annoying. She writes in sentence fragments. This book is a frame story and the reader already knows what will happen. The problem is that she doesn't give the reader reason to care about the characters enough to read on so I spent most of the book struggling to get through chapter after chapter of pointless description and local color. In retrospect, there wasn't really much activity in this book, just a lot of rambling and multiple descriptions of characters' pasts that got repetative quite quickly. I gave this book two stars instead of one because I believe that, in the future, Ms. Roy may produce something less devoid of emotion. But perhaps I am being optimistic.
I came to this book with great hopes as it had been praised by so many. I came to it on a real high after reading Rumpole's Last Case and the Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night, both of which I really enjoyed. I found myself growing annoyed with this book almost immediately after I began reading it. Some of the prose is quite beautiful, but much of the time I felt it just got in the way. I don't mind long complex sentences, but I found myself skipping entire paragraphs here. Too many of her words and sentences seemed like needless window dressing and the small insights they proffered seemed inadequate for the effort it took to get them. I hate to give up on a book once I have started it, but this one is really trying my patience. I am about three-quarters of the way through, but there are many other books beckoning me that I think might be more rewarding.
The worst book I have read so far. How on earth did it win the Booker Prize?! The story just goes on and on and at the end of it, I was left totally blank, not to forget, disgusted. In the beginning (P 8, last line), I thought that Ammu had murdered some guy. However, it does not go beyond that. The bit about the orangelemondrink guy is terribly disgusting. Sophie Mol is unnecessarily killed. The "Viable Die-able age" part got on my nerves. The poetry ending with "Dum dum" was silly. On P 327, what happens between Estha and Rahel? Most of the book is about the Church and then suddenly, there is that part on Kathakali dancers. What was the idea behind that?? For that matter, what was the idea behind the entire book?? OK, I do agree that some parts of it were funny. For instance Comrade Pillai's english, his son's little speech and oh, his niece's poetry recital. The part on people at the airport waiting to receive their "American" and "English" relatives is funny and true. However, the morbidness of the entire story overpowers these bits of humor. A Glossary of Terms would have been helpful. To sum it up, a morbid drag. Please do yourself a favor and skip this one.
The literary equivalent of being soundly thrashed with an olive branch after Sunday services and told to shut up and study your Catechism for the next three hours. I found it impossible to empathise with any of the characters, and all it comes off as is some kind of a ham-fisted, hare-brained attempt at...what? Nobody seems to know, and nothing is resolved. An agonizing, pretentious mess. Do yourself a favour and give this one a miss.
I laboured with this book, I really did, which explains my poor rating and why Roy's first novel found itself parked on my coffee table for most of its tenuous existence with me.  I am certain a great story exists within the pages given the recognition Roy has received, but after each chapter I kept asking myself: "Please Roy, just where are you going with this plot?".  This verdict may be unfair and it is a shame because there's some great, imaginative writing here - wonderful visualizations and anecdotes.  Unfortunatly, I just kept counting the pages until I was finished.
I will say one thing--Roy certainly has a knack for lovely description and painting a scene. I found this intriguing when I first started reading the book, but less than half-way through, I felt like I was completely bogged down with descriptions of irrelevant scenery. Not only that, but I felt that Roy had expended most of her energies painting scenery and little energy creating characters that I could identify with. Furthermore, Roy bombards the reader with pages and pages of summary and back story that would have been more effective if told in scene form. The story jumps around in time, making it confusing at times, but that wasn't a huge problem. Overall, I did not feel I really knew any of the characters well enough to connect with them, nor did I feel that there was any real driving force that moved the story forward. Roy touches on some interesting social and political issures, but I feel that these could have been incorporated into a better-told story with characters that weren't so flat.
I read half of "The Sum of All Fears" before I waved the white flag of surrender.  This is a novel that has too many storylines, too many characters, and too many geographical locations.  The novel switches within chapters to different storylines, characters, and locations that I sometimes thought that I had missing pages because the changes were so sudden and not logical.  Anyway, I kept thinking "The Sum of All Fears" would get better, but it just got more uninteresting.  The only good thing is that reading it helped me get to sleep.
The God of Small Things is a Booker Prize recipient & I hoped that I would enjoy it as much as the many raving reviews said I would. Unfortunately, I did not find this to be a book that I enjoyed. The book was well written and full of a lot of lyrical/poetic prose. This is a book that requires much focus and concentration and despite my best efforts, I can't say that I enjoyed it. The novel, set in India does flashbacks from past to present around an Indian family. Rahel & Estha are twins, born into a family that owns a pickling company. Most of the story is set during the 1960's and portrays a life of deep poverty and sadness. Through flashbacks from the past as well as current information, we learn the painful history of this family and the secrets that destroyed it. I had hoped to gain a better understanding of Indian culture, but personally felt the author only grazed the surface of this issue and never felt I got to really know or understand any of the characters. This is a book that I may have enjoyed more reading it in an English class to gain a full appreciation and understanding of the writing. While many may love this book, I don't think it's for everyone.
Be Advised. IT IS A VERY SMALL BOOK and so is the print inside! Please Please Review the pictures before buying this version of this book.  Although this small one may be easy to carry in a pocket or a pack during camping or Bug Out. For general everyday use and educational reading, the LARGER version of this book which AMAZON sells will be MUCH more enjoyable and useful. You'll be a lot happier!!!!  I urge caution! Buy a magnifying glass along with this small book.
Tom Clancy's Red October is my favourite sub book of all times. This one is written in such a convoluted way it's incredibly boring. No joke: I rated it 2 stars because I ended up using it too put me to sleep at night, with a great deal of success.
I liked the movie a whole lot better.
There just was not enough of a story for this small book with lots of padding. Poor.
It's a complicated story with several sub plots that don't add anything to the story line.  And even tho' it's a long book (900+ pages) it ends abruptly with too many pieces suddenly falling neatly into place.  I found it disappointing and not up to Clancy standards.
I'm used to Clancy and his details and slow writing style, but this one was just way too slow for me. If you want to enjoy this book, start at about 75% of the way through. Honestly the first 75% of this book is details, details, details and way too much background. Once you get past that... It's interesting in a good read.
I am not about to recite what everyone else did about condensing the plot,  but this was hard to get into..I put it down several times,but made myself  finally read it since the comments on the cover were so strong. I made  myself finish it and find it a most disjointed piece of literature. Roy  obsesses with her personal language and capitalized words thrown in  everywhere. I do not suggest reading this to learn about the subculture of  India...a place where I lived and hoped to re-visit in print and instead  found an self-possessed auther writing for her own audience of one. How  this book received any award is beyond my imagination! Do not waste your  time reading it!
My personal review is its too descriptive. Too much time describing things, I got bored  Stopped reading about 10% into it. Sorry.
After completing this book on the third attempt I am left with mixed  feelings. Here is my honest opinion. This is STYLE over SUBSTANCE at  times...; Disjointed passages over story which is in the background if  there is one; this is good marketing hype scoring over serious analysis and  so on. Yet the book does have some evocative descriptions. SO in the end,  not the best you will read, yet not too bad either...
I have had mixed feelings about this one. In parts I wanted to lose  myself; at others I got exasperated. Better editing could have resulted in  a better and more fluent story. It is exotic in parts. U can feel a  different land and its strange people who are different from us westerners.  However like I said, this is definitely not among the best books I have  read but still above average.
I took my time to read this book, for I wanted to relish it in totality. But frankly it did leave me a bit disappointed and wanting some explanations. As a story there is really not much. More of an autobiography  of Ms Roy. So then if one is not looking for a touching gut wrenching story  then the language and imagery should leave you touched. Here too I could  only get mixed feelings. At times it was good and honest. At others just  confusing and plain boring. It seems that the author has strung together  disjointed passages from her life. Each chapter starts well then ends up in  a web of confusion. The vision and world view of a child does come through.  BUT...so does confusion!  Maybe that is what publishers wanted. Yes this is  different no doubt,yet one cannot call it emotional or touching. So I can  at best only give it two stars. One can read one book of this type,however  to read more will be indeed sheer drudgery. There is no real happiness in  the lives of any of the characters. And no joy conveyed thru the writings.  So in all this is just above average.
Oh God! This is is supposed to be a great book! Yet why...? That was my reaction to the whole thing when I completed it. Arundhati Roy's much talked abput book is more of a personal narration of her life. If you  sympathise with her travails, you may like it. Otherwise it is one  continuous drag. The story is about twins, Rahel and Estha and their  divorced mother. A lot of venom is poured on the absent and dead father.  Again sounding like a bitter memoir of a child. But the story is not linear  at all, making it so difficult for a reader to hang on. So many phrases  which the author thinks are cute, made me tear my hair in exasperation!  Some passages at the begining of each chapter are well written. The first  page is quite similar to that of Alan Paton's Cry the beloved country.  Yet...In the end ther is some confusion. What did finally happen to Sophie  Mol?  After a point u simply do not want to bother. So my feelings to sum  up--- a pretty average fare....
This book is quite comprehensive and it's a great reference to have a hard copy of.  It reads a little bland, but I think it's main intent is to disseminate information, not to entertain.  I'd prefer reading about surviving in my locale as no major moves either to much colder, nor much hotter environments is in my near future.  If you're in to survival oriented readings, I'd say it's a must have.
Disappointing. Tom Clancy felt that he needed make the book sound authentic and as a result he loaded the book with all kinds of complicated technical information. The result was a long boring read. I would not recommend this book for anybody.
Clancy spins a good story but he gets to bogged down in minutia that ends up making the story drag on. We don't need to know every part of the physics to understand what a nuclear device is capable of doing.
Roy labours hard to describe events/things...flaunts her mastery of the language profusely...but excuse me where is the damn plot? This is story-telling at its worst and ornate writing at its best...for me R K  Narayan is still the best Indian English writer...
William Faulkner and Yoknapatawpha, Thomas Hardy and Wessex, R.K.Narayan and Malgudi... and now, Roy and her Ayemenem. The difference is that Ayemenem actually exists, though its natives prefer to spell it slightly  differently. The quaint little town, the stereotyped characters, the prose  that is a shade too purple, all seem a calculated attempt at taking ethnic  chic to the masses (in this case, eager foreigners). Of course, the book is  successful. If clever wordplay and a minimal understanding of the social  milieu can contribute to the making of a truly great novel, this has to be  it. However, it seems to be a one-off effort and it is doubtful whether Roy  can repeat her success.
This is a great book, but the down load version was typed in to Amason by a monkey chained to a type writer...so many misspelings and words run together...what a dissapointment...I exspect better from Amazon...
I am shocked, but I must admit, that I have come across an Agatha Christie that I did not enjoy at all. It is dull, confusing, and the ending is poor, but it was impossible to figure out the ending. If you are going to read Agatha Chrisie's books, I reccomend that you start with Sleeping Murder (THE BEST) or And Then There Were None/ Ten Little Indians (THE SECOND BEST). Save this one till the end.
After Vince Flynn passed away I was looking for an author and everybody said Clancey, well I gave it up after about 150 pages, and went back to another author I know and like, Lee Child
Like The Celestine Prophecy, here is a trendy bestseller everyone is trying too hard to love. And like The Celestine Prophecy, it just isn't very well written. Ms. Roy shows some definite potential when she just lets  her story flow and the characters talk naturally, but too much of the time  the prose is cut into bite-size portions that digest way too easily. It  sounds like a bad poem written by a nihilistic teenager. The characters get  far too annoying too, with Ms. Roy cramming them so full of quirks that you  get sick of it. The God of Small Things is occasionally poetic but more  often than not ridiculous, contrived, and boring.
This book started out great and I was totally mesmerized, but by the end I was so disgusted and heartsick Iam surprised Oprah hasn't picked this book for one of her selections. (Most of her books deal with totally  dysfunctional people and families) I was so so sad for these children in  this book and the way they were treated by those who were supposed to love  them. These people were so screwed up!!!!! And the thing that disgusted me  the most was the author having the siblings have a sexual relationship in  the end of the book. WHAT WAS THE POINT OF THAT??????? What did that add to  this already totally depressing story. I felt horrible when I finished this  book. Yuck!!!! I never want to go to India.
You may be curious to read this award winner which has sold so well.  But it is mostly all hype, and ultimately it is a difficult to read, disjointed novel.  For anyone who is interested in India, Rohinton Mistry's "A  Fine Balance" is a far superior novel, also an award winner, but  delightfully readable.
Not one of the best Miss Marples.  Lots of characters but none are very good.  Needed a great crooked criminal.
I've been a huge Clancy fan for years, but WOW this book is dry, slow and dull.  I'm astonished at how much work it is to read this book. I'm giving up at about half-way.
I could not get into Ben Affleck playing the role of Jack Ryan.  I thought the movie was mediocre and just didn't do it for me.  In my mind stick with the novel and pass up the movie.  If you like Harrisson Ford as Jack Ryan then Ben Affleck is surely going to disappoint in my mind.  Doesn't live up to Ford's persona on the big screen.
The worst, and last Clancy book I've read. Too much politics, too little action. This monstrous book bored me to no end. I can see why Clancy went back to a young Jack Ryan in Red Rabbit.
Love Agatha Christie's writing, but this was almost like someone wrote a mystery and inserted Jane Marple in a few cushy chairs for color commentary.  The mystery wasn't solved by Jane, although she concurred with the denouement.  Sort of boring, really.
Good plot, good characters, but too long, waaayyy toooo long!!!  Too many side stories, with some characters who don't play an important part at all; so it can get confusing and frustrating. This reader (a patient one) wanted to keep to the main part of the storyline, and the action, but Clancy takes forever to get to it. By the time I reached the action towards the end, I had labored through 700 odd pages and it seemed as if the climax was just not worth it. As a result, it felt like a book you had to read for school or college, not just for fun.  Not one of my favorite Clancy books.
Slow moving story line.  Not one of her best books.  Kept reading and stopping as plot line could not hold my interest.  Plot was predictable.  Finally finished with dissappointment in the ending.
A classic.  Typical of her writing.
Not a terrible book by any means, but many better titles are available on the subject. Did not go into the bin, actually made it into the box in the closet.  This book attempts to deal with too much subject matter, covering none in enough detail to help in the field.  Cannot recommend.
Not up to snuff. Miss Marple is only a third rate character. Not a good read. Very disappointing to one who was not familiar with Agatha's earlier novels. Just not an enjoyable read.
I approached this book with high expectations, given all the hoopla  surrounding it.  What a disappointment.  True, the language is in some  cases poetic, although the stylistic devices become tedious and irritating  rather quickly. The exotic background and detail are interesting. But at  bottom, it's just a very ordinary story about nasty people in a nasty  society.  It left me with a bad taste, and the conviction that if the  setting had been America, this book would have fallen into the obscurity it  deserves.
FAR TOO NARATIVE AS OPPOSED TO FORMERLY READ CLANCY BOOKS. LACKING INTER-PERSONAL REMARKS.  HAD QUITE ENOUGH PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY IN SCHOOL.  THIS "BOOK" LACKED THE PERSONAL INTERPLAY AVAILABLE IN PREVIOUSLY CLANCY BOOKS.
Let me start out as saying that I am a fan of Tom Clancy.  I loved almost every book that came before this.  Sum of all Fears is a very compelling story but this book could afford to lose about 300 pages.  Does the reader really need to follow the path of a tree being shipped to Japan?  Yes it does play a significant role later in the story but do I need to know the name of the guy who cut it down and how he came to be a lumberjack?  We're given 3 pages of background on a cop who is murdered and never mentioned again.  And the building of the bomb! I skipped many pages when it came to this.  It's by sheer luck that I happened to stumble on the only significant part of the bomb's making.   This book almost put me off Clancy for good.  I haven't and probably won't read DEBT OF HONOR or EXECUTIVE ORDER.  I did read and enjoy the John Clark stories WITHOUT REMORSE and RAINBOW SIX.  Retire Jack Ryan and stick with Clark and Ding Chavez.
I did not need a review to buy this book: a book by an Indian woman, and a delectable title. I knew I wanted to read it. Buying a book is a rare treat for me. I made a mistake when I bought "The God of Small Things." I love transporting prose, and an unconventional (or post-modernist) style will not put me off, as long as the story is served and I can submerge myself in the author's vision. Roy's writing never served her story or characters. It hovered self-consciously and annoyingly over the characters and their lives, never giving me a chance to know them or care what happened to them, or what it might mean in the context of a real world.  I will not recommend this book to my friends or book group, and I am disappointed that it beat another splendid book, Cold Mountain, for the Booker Prize.
Tom Clancy writes like he is paid by the word.  What could easily be stated quickly is tediously rehashed.  Jack is drinking too much.  Liz Elliot doesn't like Jack.  Jack is drinking too much.  Jack is a superman that the country can not possibly do without and the stress is  wearing poor Jack out.  Jack is drinking too much.  There is a pretty good story hidden in the ponderous presentation.  For goodness sakes, someone edit the chaff away from the wheat!
It is a very comprehensive book, not too much detail, but enough in some places.  My first problem with the book is the size. At 4.5 x 3.2 x 0.9 inches, I'm guessing it is meant to be taken on a trip with you. It's small. It is painful to read this at home. Seriously, it's not big and the pictures and letters are small. Not very good. And at about 1" thick, it is not anything that I would ever throw in my backpack.  There are parts of the book that would be great to take backpacking: the edible plants section, snares, shelters, and a few others. But the book is very broad in its topics. It will discuss the arctic and the tropics, plus everything in between. Nice if the book was full size. But in something to take everywhere?? No. I'm not going to be in all those spots at once. If it was compartmentalized, sure, I'd rip it apart and take what I need. But it's not.  It's a nice high level survival guide. General things on what to do in most areas. But really, it's not that useful. If it was full size, with more detail, I'd use it as a reference before heading out. If it was better sectioned, more thorough, I'd take it apart and take it with me.  Overall, I don't feel like this is a good purchase for me.
At 900-some pages, this book is hard to get started on.  It could be compressed to about 400 pages, if the more useless parts were cut out.  It was a very interesting story, but it was executed in a wrong way.  One thing that bothered me was the excessive use of profane language.  Does cussing really improve a book any?  The thoughts of these people are horrendous.  Women are constantly called names, and people suddenly yell out "S.O.B." in capital letters in their minds.  The idea of a nuclear explosion at the Super Bowl is pretty exciting, but you have to read a ways to get to the real action.  Read "The Hunt For Red October" instead of this.  Or at least BEFORE it.
It is not the Agatha ' s best
Until "The Bear and the Dragon" came along, this was my least favorite Clancy novel. Unlike his earlier stuff, he takes FOREVER to get the story cooking, and it's the first one where his personal politics really start to get in the way. In a book where it takes a whole chapter for a nuclear bomb to go off, you can expect to read some fairly arcane technical trivia. ("The Bear and the Dragon" also has this in common with "Sum." They're the only ones where he tries to write sex scenes, and, well, let's just say it's not his forte. He should have learned from this novel that he doesn't do it well, and left it alone.) This is the only Tom Clancy novel I have been unable to reread. Some of them I've read five or six times. This one I just can't make it through a second time.
There are many people in this story, many smells, sights, sounds, traumatic events, nonsense words, distortions of time and perception, confusing  paragraphs that require re-reading,  -- all in the service of a James Michener-type of family saga that illustrates the sad-but-true dictum that talented people (or untalented, for that matter) can be so screwed up by lack of nurturance that they are essentially crippled for life. There is heartbreak and sadness and inconsolable pain in these characters' lives. But unfortunately, Roy's clutter-it-up approach interferes.
It was a good book, if you read the last 50 pages, which makes it LIKE a man without a hat.  The imagery inudated the reader LIKE ice pellets on the street during a storm.  It was rather disjointed and difficult to follow LIKE a winding country road.  After awhile, I began skipping any phrase that followed the word "like", LIKE a runner rushing towards a finish line.  Poetic writing is wonderful, but not everything should be a simile...
I don't understand the rave reviews on this book. For one, it tries to do too many things (badly) instead of concentrating on solid wilderness survival. I wanted to like it, but it has inconcistincies all over. It tries to cover (very badly...main advice "wear protective gear full body") even chemical attacks, flood, drought, etc. (where's the section on locust, and frogs?) Seriously, they oversimplify complex things, that in my opinion have ZERO chance of working in the field (bolero? throwing stick?) and terrible illustrations that don't illustrate. Spear launcher, sheesh. a guy would die out there trying these things. It is incomplete in it's advice (snares...you gotta know how to get your scent off of it) he should have written a whole chapter on snares, but explained in detail the theory, what you can expect to catch, simple but well explained snare types (keep it down to a few, but explain them well) and skinning instructions.  Seriously, this book is dangerously lacking in the right kind of information.  Plus instead of logically splitting up all info (like WATER...explain the basics common to all needs, but in the same chapter explain differences in arid, temperate, arctic, etc.)  For me it was a total waste of money. I guess I could use it for kindling, or fire starting.
Pretty typical Chrisie but sloppy ending.
If you're looking for an Agatha Christie book featuring Miss Marple as the main character pass this one by. I love Agatha Christie novels usually, but this one has me very confused.  With the novels you typically will have the prime perpetrator shifting between characters. More importantly Miss Marple, Poirot, etc. are the ones going through everything and eventually solving the crime.  With this one, she simply interjects comments from time to time and you have a Scotland Yard detective solving the mystery.  ODD book for Christie.
Characters not developed.  Also, it is a Miss Marple mystery, but she barely had a role at all.  Not recommended
One of her weaker Marple books. Christie's crime syndicate plot rings false. Not as good as her usual formula.  Not enough Marple.  Too much time spent on characters that seem cartoonish and false.  Overall pretty unsatisfying book.
I've loved every Christie book I've read.  This one kinda stunk.  Miss Marple may as well have not even been in it.  It's as though she was added as an afterthougt to the story.  The writing, as always, was great and engaging.  But the story itself was DULL as dirt and totally predictable.  I love Agatha Christie books because they always find a way to surprize me and this one simply didn't fit the bill.  I didn't find it overly complicated like some other readers mentioned, but I read it quickly and didn't give myself time to forget who the characters were.  Very dissapointed that I paid that much for a sorta crappy book  :(
Lacks suspense. Plausible characters are far and in between. Not as horrid as Passage to Frankfurt which is unreadable. That's a plus. But the whole finale is ridiculous. That Christie uses this novel to reminisce about the loss of of England's traditional ways is endearing, but not a vital enough element. Clearly, whenever the old gal starts trying to address bigger crimes, she loses her way. This one has a train robbery and a crime syndicate and much below par writing. If this is anyone's first Christie novel, it will no doubt be their last.
The book is great as have enjoyed the Beautiful Cookbooks.  The sender said book was in excellent condition but it is falling apart and very used, so am bummed - first time that has happened to me
The Fifth Child worked so brilliantly because every page breathed the  conflict between the "nice" normalcy of Ben's family with the  horror of this misbegotten child. The opening portrait of this novel  continues this tension, in the story of his life with an elderly woman who  takes him in from the streets. But from there Ben falls in with socially  marginalized characters, some nice, some nasty, but none of whom provides a  worthy foil to Ben's anomoly. Here he is nothing but victim, either  exploted or pitied, and the story takes on a flat, cartoonish, soap opera  quality. Perhaps the author intends some sort of parable in the turn of  events that casts Ben as an ersatz film actor, but I found that whole  situation witless, derailing what could have been a challenging and  engaging story.
INTERESTING BOOK, BUT THE ENDING DIDN'T GO WITH THE REST OF THE STORY.  IT WAS A BIG LET DOWN.  WHAT HAPPENED TO BEN?  WHAT HAPPENED TO HIS PARENTS?  WHERE DID HE COME FROM?
I read The Fifth Child and found it a passable piece of literature:  It had a fair amount of character development and an interesting plot.  It interested me to the point where I wanted to read more about Ben.  Big mistake!  While Ben, In the World started off along the same lines as TFC, it changed, horrifically, about midway through.  Perhaps Lessing pushed the writing assignment onto a hack as she tired of writing the book.  The pages became filled with tripe, plain and simple.  All of a sudden, the reader is taken away from Ben, and vice versa, to be fed a bunch of little stories about this side character or that one, and those stories are, at once, insipid and inane.  I found myself angry as heck as the book drew to a close.  It was easy to see where it was leading, but painful to go along for the bumpy ride.  The ending, as written, was not necessary, to strongly disagree with another reviewer here.  It was as frustrating to read as the preceeding half of the book, leading up to it.  I am now soured on Lessing.  I may read a few reviews of other books she has written, but unless I can determine that she is a better writer than what I have been shown in this Ben book, I will pass her by, for good!
I loved the Fifth Child.  I found it powerful and provocative: as it focused mostly upon Ben's mother and how she dealt with her strange son, it delved deep into questions of love and duty, otherness, and societal bonds.  Ben, the savage child, was a catalyst, a mirror held up to our own modern selves, in which we see the savage ways we treat what we fear and do not understand. Sadly, Ben in the World is a great disappointment to me.  Lessing decides here to follow Ben and see who he is, what he wants, and how he hurts.  I think this is a mistake; what made the Fifth Child work was Ben as a mirror, a reflection of society.  Here, that is so deeply diminished it's hardly worth mentioning.  And it's hard to come to any kind of powerful discovery of who Ben is -- a yeti, a throwback, whatever, ultimately another lonely person in a lonely world. The premise is flawed, the plot is weak and wandering -- there's no real reason why anything happens to Ben -- and in the end, it degrades to a hardly believable B-movie plotline (reminded me of that movie with Matthew Broderick and the monkey.  Project X?) Seems like I've heard a lot of people saying Ben is a parallel to Frankenstein.  Hardly, unless you mean the monosyllabic Frankenstein of the movies.  Shelley's monster was articulate, passionate, opinionated, and driven.  He showed us ourselves at our worst.  Ben is simply primal.  At best, he shows us ourselves at our simplest. It took some discipline to finish this book.  I won't pick it up again, and I don't recommend it.
I was extremely frustrated using this book on my recent trip to Antarctica and South Georgia.  Some of the plates do not do an accurate job of depicting the birds and the distribution maps are also not entirely accurate.  The professional ornithologist on my trip  agreed with my observations and recommended that I purchase another book: "Birds of Patagonia, Tierra del Fuego, and the Antarctic Peninsula" by E. Couve and C. Vidal.
Minimally engaging.  The characters are thin and the setting, a murder of a nun in a cloistered convent, is squandered.  I found a lot of condescension in the description of the nuns' vocation.  What would have been really interesting (something PD James might have done) would be to look at the various motivations for becoming a nun, what it was that drove them and sustained them.  What can I say ?  The Kindle was $1.99 and it was overpriced.  The solution was arbitrary and by the time the killer was revealed I really didn't care.
"Religious Body" is the first novel of crime novelist Catherine Aird.  We meet Inspector C.D Sloan of the Calleshire CID, as he tries to solve a baffling murder of a nun at a convent.  Soon, he discovers that someone was doing some cross-dressing, and that a group of boys had help in stealing a habit for a bonfire to celebrate Guy Fawkes Day.  It isn't really bad, but the dialogue has an empty feel, and it seems like Aird is still finding her voice.
I hated this story. That jackie girl was crazy then it was all some kind of they were both in on it stunt. I was ok with it until the ending. if it had not ended so stupid and been so drawn out i would have given it 3.5 or 4 stars.
It is truly a short story of Death on the Nile. It only took me 10 minutes to finish it. To be honest, I don't like it. It is way too short. I will buy the original one to read for sure.
This volume covers the birds found in Argentina, Chile, Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, southern Brazil and the part of Antarctica closest to South America. It's part of a series called Princeton Illustrated Checklists.  After leafing through the book, I concur. This is definitely a checklist, rather than an actual field guide. The color illustrations are very small, the fonts are even smaller and the species presentations are ultra-short. Range maps form a separate chapter.  Highlights include the Jabiru, the Andean Condor, the Greater Rhea, the Wandering Albatross and the Dwarf Tinamou (provided you can see it). The European Starling is also included, since it has established itself around Buenos Aires and is expected to spread. It seems the local avifauna in southern South America has been cursed with interesting times  A curious detail is that the copy I found in a Swedish library has been improved by an enthusiastic bird-lover, who has written the Swedish vernacular name of each bird after its entry! It must have taken the poor man at least a week to conclude this Herculean task. Thank you. However, since this checklist didn't thrill me enough, I only give it two stars.
The book is almost worthless. The drawings of some of the birds makes using them for identification impossible! Spend the extra $'s and get one of the other book!
Despite its rather poor birds drawings and notes, this guide helped me during my trip in Argentina and Chile. However, the maps are not easy to read, as being put at the end of the book. The guide "birds of Chile of Alvaro Jaramillo" is , from far, a much better book.
I don't believe there is a good choice at this time.  We are headed to Brazil on a birding trip soon.  Of about 720 birds that we might reasonably see in the areas we are to visit according to various compiled trip reports, this book only covered 60%.  In addition, the pictures on the facing page from the text, were in almost random order.  I used the Clements book on Peru to fill in 3/4 of the missing birds.
I remember enjoying Agatha Christie movies growing up, so when Audible offered this book for such a steal, I thought I might take a listen. This book was narrated differently than most books, as it was presented as more of a dramatization. The actors did a fine job, but the story itself was predictable, and dare I say, mundane. I almost feel irreverent criticizing a novel by the great Agatha Christie; but I can only attribute it to the fact that the material is rather dated, and the whodunit aspect of the novel, a bit unimaginative. Having said that, Ms. Christie was likely one of the first to come up with that now-exhausted story-line, back in 1960. So, maybe I should revise my critique by saying that perhaps the authors that followed her with the same plot were unoriginal. It is only modern-day readers that would dare share this critique about a book by such a revered author.
I didn't get the cover that was shown and the seller wasn't very helpful. The book itself is a great book and would recommend it to anyone.
In 'Death on the Nile' I was thoroughly disappointed in that half-way through the book I guessed correctly on who was the murderer (but of course did not find out that my assumption was correct until the end). It thought it was rather predictable actually.  I thought the characters had the same personality and seemed interchangeable. They were either A) Rich and snobby or B) poor and meddling. But there's like 20 characters that fit either of these categories, all whose personalities are one dimensional, so it's pretty annoying. With this substitutable cast of characters, and Poirot constantly changing his mind on how the crime happened, even after he declares that he has solved the crime, it's almost impossible to figure out who is who, where who was when the crime happened, why who would want the victim killed, etc. You need a flow chart or some other sort of visual aid to understand it all. If Christie had cut the cast down in half it would have been a lot better.  I'd say still give this Christie novel a try though. It was enjoyable to a point.
This book was predictable and reminded me of the game clue. I may not be an Agatha Christie fan. This was not the book for me.
I have recently started reading A.C.'s books on my Kindle. I'm used to seeing some typos in the eReader versions of books, but I was appalled at seeing 27 in Death on the Nile! Mostly they were OCR typos, a space was needed between words or the space was misplaced. I tried to write to the publisher: Harper Collins, but found that their website was diabled as of 12/19/10. I really like reading these books on my Kindle, but so far, I've only found the Harper Collins versions. Are there others with less typos? Is there perhaps the complete works of Agatha Christie?
I'm reading the magnificent Sharpe series in order, after having read many of them when they came out (and therefore not in chronological order).  This is book 5, after the trilogy set in India, and the Trafalgar book (all of which rated 5 stars, I would say).  This one is somewhat disappointing.  It's transitional, IMHO, in that it is partially naval and partially army---after the naval action at Trafalgar and before the European army war against Napoleon.  It also seems to be transitional in that Sharpe becomes a career soldier after this, forsaking most of his doubts expressed in earlier books.  So far, so good.  And there are great scenes in this one, especially the one where Sharpe escapes from a locked room.  But if one removes the words 'smoke', 'fire,' and 'sparks' from this story, the book would be tremendously shorter.  I mean really, how many times do I have to be told about the smoke and fire above, around, and in Copenhagen?  Repetition, to a point, creates a scene of pervasiveness, and that I understand.  But it can be overdone, and I sadly write that it was overdone here.  Are we being paid by the word?  I got to the point where I would rather have read 'a grey colloid hung over the embattled city.'
To work, historical novels have to have some element of believability. This one just doesn't ! And when the author simply walks away from the ending, one suspects a book is written more to keep the publisher, than the reader, happy.
I do feel a tad guilty about giving this book such a low mark. After all, Dame Christie was and is a legend and I do believe in the 30,s 40,s and 50,s her books were much better received. Maybe I am just too jaded. I hope not.  The book is a nice quick read but it is boring and my wife(who only listened to a few hints) and I figured out the killer easily and quickly. And the effete little Periot is almost a farcical figure with his cute little sayings etc. When Mrs. Doyle says, "Why I haven't an enemy in the world," near the beginning , you know she is, how you say, the "piece of toast>"Thats how cute little Hercules would have, how you say, said it. HE too often comes up  with some really droll wonderful expression like, "Ah, life is so mysterious" or some such. The first, and how you say, the last of her books, I shall open.
Sorry to spoil the party, but this is by some way the weakest of the series. It concerns the British bombardment of Copenhagen in 1807, not to be confused with Nelson's more famous attack in 1801. (For an inoffensive people the Danes came in for a lot of stick: they wouldn't hand over their fleet, you see, even when asked nicely, and the Froggies were up to their old tricks.) There's a doublecrossing upper-class rotter - guess what happens to him - and a beautiful blonde - likewise. Apart from the odd eye-gouging and general mayhem, that's about it.  There's a good description of Copenhagen being knocked flat, if you like that sort of thing. The plot is uninvolving; the dialog verges on the embarrassing. There's no trace of the gallows humor that lifts other Sharpe stories. I persevered because I'm a Sharpe fan from way back. If you haven't read one before, read and enjoy 'Sharpe's Gold', 'Sharpe's Enemy' or the picaresque masterpiece 'Sharpe's Regiment'. But leave this one until (much) later.
Not at par with the rest of the books. I think he doesn't know what to do with the plot anymore.
Title says it all. It took years for this book to come into our hands, and it falls short. I guess between his other books he was able to write and his HBO series even George has forgotten his story line. I for one will not wait another 6 years for book Six. Its a shame because this series could grip readers by the throat! But I can't justify the wait or tolerate the authors indifference to his readers.
I read the first books long before the TV show. I found this book very difficult to read and it dragged, it was a mess if different places, not so much the people, that was so engrossing in the first 3 books. It has put me off wanting to read anymore, and as I haven't watched the TV programs I'm really disappointed.  I expected more. I wonder if this book was not written as a novel, but more as a screen play. I will not be bothering to buy more of these sequels if they are like this book.
Least favorite...  There's a lot wrong with this book... It's too long for one.. it meanders about in places that it doesn't need to.  So many new characters introduced for no purpose...
Started off strong amd them drifted into side stories that bore no pertinemce to moving the story forward. Could have been 400 pages shorter
I started reading to enhance my understanding of the TV show and Ill admit that seeing how two of the most unlikely characters in the book or the TV show ever got together was my only interest in reading the books. What I got is a somewhat different story (as expected) that ends far short of what can be seen on the TV show and where further explanation is required. Since neither Feast of Crows nor A Dance With Dragons really advance the story much from the third book they are somewhat tedious to read (especially all of that Ironborn stuff - a lot of groundwork was laid there for naught).
Good story but tedious overwrought telling that brings about bouts of boredom.  Tell the story please.
Unfortunately this series starting to get weaker. The first three books excellent book 4 was not, and book 5 was a serious disappointment.
Very boring. Like really really boring. I'm 200+ pages in and nothing has happened. For a book containing some of my favorite characters (Tyrion, Jon and Daenerys) there has not been a single interesting thing that has happened. For example: there is an entire chapter that is nothing but Tyrion riding in a cart eating, drinking and sleeping. Like Jesus man who cares.
didnt care for the person narrating the story wish it would have been a female voice.
Tiresome.
I really liked "crooked letter, crooked letter" so sought out other work by this author.  I do think the author is very talented and I enjoy his writing style.  The subject matter of this book interested me, but, many of the scenes were too graphic, dark and disturbing for my tastes. I almost quit about 1/3 through but slogged ahead. Oddly, it read like a western to me - my mind went to the gun-slinging Wild West, not rural Alabama.  It does offer a glimpse what life and law was like back then, but, I don't care to read about drowning puppies or ghastly, lingering deaths.
Not enough story and too much violence to suit most readers I think. No really good guys to cheer for it seems
I bought this book shortly after reading a short story by the same author in a collection of mystery tales. I also read that this author  picked up where Harper Lee left off, I am sure, if Ms. Lee read that, she would sue that critic. It is a pointless, seemingly directionless mish mass.
The scope of these books remains impressive, but I keep asking myself why I am reading so many pages of fairly lame dialogue among so many one-dimensional characters for the brief reward of something occasionally happening. I sincerely wish Martin would drive the plot forward and waste less time on the rest. The first few books did not feel as much this way, but books 4 and 5 are incredibly slow-moving. Great classic literature should be long, not these books.
I went ahead and read this book because of all the great reviews. However, I was dissapointed. Other reviewers made it sound like a Southern version of Mystic River. It is not. I really could never connect to the main characters. Although there were moments of intrigue they were few and far between. The denoument lasts forever and I found myself skimming the last few chapters just to make sure nothing interesting happened at the end. Nothing did.
I loved the first two books, liked the third but the fourth and fifth books left much to be desired. As other reviewers have stated there are no conclusions at the end of each book. Years would pass between each book and the story just stopped at the end of book 5. A great writer that seemed to run out of ideas on how to complete the series. Sad... 3 stars for the series and 2 for book 5 after a great start. Perhaps book 6 will continue the great writing found in books 1 and 2.
Although the author uses quite a bit of creative license in his tale of the events of the Mitcham war, the book is still enjoyable to read and gives a definite sense of the time period and location's culture. Having grown up in rural Alabama, I can attest that some of those cultural standards survive today.  I think the characters were realistic, if a bit flat in places. The mystery was based entirely on the timeline of events and the author did a good job of keeping you intrigued in working it all out.  I give this novel only 2 stars because the historical facts are few and far between, and due to the first chapter which cast a sour note over the rest of the novel for me. Animal lovers beware: you should either skip this first chapter, which adds little to the story, or prepare yourself for an overly detailed description of a main character drowning a sackful of puppies.
Of the series so far the was the hardest to finish. It dragged, seeming to get lost in descriptions unfettered by the storyline, and uninteresting in nature.
Too much unnecessary wording. Author seemed to want to make sure we understood the evils of communism. This made the book very slow reading.  There are pages of dialogue that did not add a thing to the story.
Difficult to read, lack of continuity made me always trying to figure how everything was going to fit! Wish I hadn't wastefd all my time!
Very disappointed.  Over 4 previous books Mr. Martin introduces dozens of characters, including dragons, but then in the final book he simply leaves everything and everyone hanging in space.  There is no climax, no "final ending."  The book, and the story, simply STOPS.
I loved the first several books in the series. Book four seemed to slow down but was okay. Book five, Dance of Dragons, is a drag. I am really struggling to finish this book. I have roughly 600 pages in to this tome. There are too many characters and too little action. Martin makes us of difficult and lengthy lists describing the food being served or the people present or what someone is wearing. It just drags on and seldom has any bearing on the plot. It feels like I am waiting for a payoff that is never coming. What is even more troubling is that it has now been nearly six years since this book was published and there is no word of when book six will be released. I advise thinking long and hard before you invest your time and money on this series.
It was tedious
Inferior with respect to the first two novels in this series.
I loved the first 3 books but this one is weak, meandering and pointless.
I found this last book harder to follow than the previous books of this series.  Also, characters introduced in Book I still had no final disposition.  What happened to them?  It's like the author got tired of writing, so he just stopped the story. I wish i'd never been introduced to the series.
Unless you are a Latin scholar or a linquist, this is not the book for you, don't waste your time or money. I got a copy from the library and did not buy it.
I suspect he gets paid by the word.  I was hoping to have the series be wrapped up but no such luck.  I only care about 4 of the characters and he just doesn't move the plot along.
A mess. Unreadable except by devoted followers of GRRM's series. I read it only because I wanted to see how the books differ from the series on TV. They do, in substantial ways, which makes it fun :) Structurally, however, the last two books... GAH. For example (spoiler alert) at the end of Feast of Crows, Sam has already left The Wall and had many adventures on the road. At the beginning of Dance of Dragons, Sam is, confusingly, still at The Wall.  The book is very poorly edited. All writers seem to fall in love with one word or another. In this book it's "jape", used instead of "joke." A few times is okay, but when a word sticks out in a reader's mind because of overuse, that's bad--it distracts from the story. Same with "leal".  It's worth reading but only because it's part of the series.
I felt like I was wondering around in the world of George RR Martin's mind with no clear end in sight. By this point in the series, there are so many characters and so many story lines that it's hard to keep them all straight.  I wish I would have just skipped this book.
The first three books were excellent, therefore, the reader could expect the series to continue with the same quality.  Not so.  The last two books were just  the writer's self indulgence.  A story has a beginning, middle and end.  This writer just has a franchise going and is milking it for whatever its worth.  To sell these books as a five part story is false marketing.  Could have been a classic...falls far short..probably because the author has not real concrete worldview.
The book must have been a defective printing, part way through the book some of the printing almost gets cutoff on the bottom of the page for about 60 pages
GRRM writes less like a book author and more like a screenplay writer in this book. Actually, that's a pretty consistent trait in his writing. It took more than a year for me to get through this book. It here were too may scene shifts and some of the scenes were left hanging - like a telenovela or soap opera. I am eager to learn about the "winter" we've been threatened with for a decade, alas... Not yet. Maybe not ever, now that the TV series has passed the end of the books.
I feel bad giving this 2 stars, but considering the high quality and expectations created in the previous books this is a 2 star performance in comparison. There was essentially no progress made in the overall story from beginning to end. Most of the characters ended the book in nearly the same circumstances or locations (despite some being on epic journeys) as they started. Not to mention several of my favorite characters aren't even in this book.
Meandering and pointless. First three books were good, fourth was average, and fifth is subpar.
I started this book with high hopes but this book turned out to be too long and boring.  I thought he could have shortened it and still got all the story in and made it more exciting.  This book is like a filler.  He could have left this one out and got further along in the story.  I'm glad I have finally finished it and can now move on.
As other reviewers have mentioned, It seems to me that book 4 and book 5 should have been combined into one much shorter entity.  I found myself skimming several parts (especially the Reek/Theon parts) because they were so iterative and slow moving.  The quantity of characters is so vast that one loses interest in some of them.  The first book was amazing and the first 3 together were very, very enjoyable.  I'm disappointed in the last two and frustrated that we have what started out as a fascinating journey turn into "a maze of twisty passages, all alike" (for those of you who remember the old Adventure game).  You have to read the book, if you've read all the others, but it definitely doesn't stand alone.
If you've came this far in the books then you owe it to yourself to finish it. Let me just say though, this is one of my least favorite books in the series. GRRM is talented as a writer but the book just doesn't need to be this long. Seriously, you'll find about 200-300 pages could have been cut out. I love the story of GoT but I'm undecided at times about how it is written.  Last thing ill mention and, again, this is my opinion: when GRRM focuses on a story from different angles I find myself really enjoying the story. When he dances from different story lines I find it very hard to follow or, simply, to stay engaged in what is going on.
But the author of the Flashman series indulges in a bit of self-mockery to show off his metafiction chops. It's like he's saying, "See how easy it is."
This is a pastiche, and far broader than Fraser's other Flashman books, which are more interesting and amusing.  It's unsuccessful from my point of view, since the excessively  parodistic style gets in the way of things.  It's attempt at humor didn't work for me.  I have lots of Fraser's other books and enjoy them, but this one the least.  I will give it away eventually (not to a friend).
pedictable and did not conclude the story as promised
I was very disappointed even though I had read an unfavorable review of the book.  I was looking for closure of the characters that the author let unfinished in earlier books.
I started this book on day one got half way through and stopped reading it. I picked it back up recently and finished it. The first three books were amazing but the last two were boring to say the least.  I would do a search and look for the interesting plot points and save yourself the time of watching paint dry for 1000 pages.
Having enjoyed the series in general, this has been my least favorite one since the last one.  This one has maybe 10 chapters worth reading.  Everything else is set up for the next book.  The pace is so slow and cutting from character to character so quickly only helps to hide the fact that nothing really happens in between your last reading of the last time the character popped up.  Things happen for sure, but this is nothing like books 1 or 2.  I only really care to follow one to two characters anymore that haven't been killed and even still the pacing just trudges.  Sadly, I really don't have more to say.  Final Grade - C-
Definitely the weakest to date.  An awful lot of sitting around, not a lot of story happening.  ~100 pages of story, the remainder is just characters being introspective and lamenting the choices they've made so far.
This hurts to say, but if I'm honest, really honest...I didn't like or enjoy this book. I loved the others, love the genre, love the characters. I think Martin has just lost the drive, and it showed in this book. He's in over his head. He is in desperate need of a good editor to keep the story focused and keep him in check. I bought it when it first came out, and it aggravated my tendonitis and is what prompted my Kindle purchase. Too big, too long. I don't mind long books, but only when they don't lose their voice and focus. This was just rambling stories that didn't really move the stories of the 439294232 OTHER characters we have forward. I'll probably read the next books when they come out, but more out of a sense of duty than joy.  ASOIAF would have been the BEST trilogy ever, but now it's going all Robert Jordan on us and that makes me sad.
I love the author, his Flashman series is really fun and the history plausible. This was interesting, but really went into the weeds. Granted, it is a confusing period, but more coherence and some tighter themes would help in understanding this interesting period. Good if you are really interested in the Borderers in their most chaotic time, not so much if you aren't.
I have been interested in the reivers since a visit to Hadrian's Wall and the museum in Carlisle, England, about two decades ago.  The interest was originally piqued by the fact that my wife's family came from the region of the English-Scot border and was displayed on a map in the museum among the border families.  Moreover, the border region was one of the most lawless areas in the history of English-speaking peoples, making Dodge City look benign by comparison.  In spite of my interest, this is the first book I could not complete in about 50 years of reading.  The anecdotal detail was just overwhelming.  How many cattle raids, house burnings, family feuds and corrupt officials have to be described to make the point?  Moreover, the historical background that was most interesting is found in the middle of the book.  Perhaps that is intended to rally the flagging interest of readers, but it didn't work for me. I have read and enjoyed a couple of the fiction stories by PF Chisholm set in this era, which are based on a historical figure important in Steel Bonnets.  If you want to get a flavor of the era without being put off, I would suggest those.  The history is really for hard core buffs who revel in this period and its travails.
Interesting, but a difficult read
Could not wade through it.
Waited three years to get this book. Got 1100 pages of beheadings. What happened to the story? Where Is Jamie?
As I suspected from reading many reviews that stated the same: There is not a major progress in the story. Every chapter is just too long and nothing happens unitl the last two paragraphs. And, when finally something is about to occur, the book ends :)  I liked Theon and Ser Barristan chapters the most. I consider Theon the most interesting character in this book and he would be the only one that has some progress in the story, though is a little bit confusing that most of his chapters have different names. Why not name them just Theon?  I was disapointed by Tyrion chapters in this book. He is my favorite character in the series, but in this installment he just wanders and again, nothing really important happens with him.  It would seem that in the next book, all that could have happened in Dance with Dragons (If the author didn't spent 80% of the chapters telling about the lineage and stories of every character in a room) could have some progress. But in this moment, I'm not very sure I will continue reading the series. I loved the first 3 books as almost all George Martin fans did, but the last two books makes me think that the author is lost in the huge story he has created.
The plot is really half a dozen plots that sometimes connect and most often do not. The book goes on forever, devoting equal detail to meals, clothing, and means of torturing and murdering people .... while barely advancing the overall plot line. Frankly, I'm sick of it!
There is no doubt the Mr Martin is an outstanding writer. However I found this book to be tedious. It went on and on and on about characters I really wasn't interested in, and about characters I really didn't like. I guess part of that is because he has a habit of killing characters off so he has to continually introduce more future victims. This book reminded me of Robert Jordan's A Crossroads of Twilight. Lots of words, lots of characters, lots going on but not taking the story anywhere. I skim read most of this book (having figured out a long time ago that the punch always comes in the last couple paragraphs of each chapter) and only read complete chapters for a few characters. If Mr Martin reads this review I suspect his response will be "You don't like the book? Xxxxx, xxxxx, xxxx! Don't xxxxing read them then!" Don't worry Mr Martin, I shall not.
This is not a review of the book itself but a caution about this particular edition--the paperback. My copy skips from page 496 to page 529. Not such a big deal, perhaps, in a book this long, but I am a little miffed about the missing 33 pages.
The world of this series is created vividly and promisingly, but then nothing happens. Rape and murder are usually catalysts for plot, but here replace the plot entirely. Immediately after the 'red wedding' I thought  the author was quite daring, but by the time I ploughed through this volume it became clear that the author simply has no idea what to do with his characters. They and this series' many fans deserve better.
Loved the story, hated the narrator... Roy Dotrice, you Sir are a MORON... Jilly instead of Gilly. Bry-eeen instead of Bree-anne and the million other names you took a steaming pile of $%^T on because of your complete lack of common sense. And your interpretations are outrageous & ridiculous, why is it that in your eyes, every woman character in ASOIAF has to be a 90 year old woods witch? But these are NOT the worst of Roy Dotrices flaws, oh no! And if you read along while listening, you'll likely know what I mean, as it is impossible to miss the millions of grammar mistakes & misspellings. It's literally sickening how bad he destroys this great story. Dotrice is an old fart but this wasn't his fault, it was the Audible recording team's fault for not having the professional courtesy to help correct his errors.
I found it to be very confusing and very hard to read.
Bad translation.
Very quirky book.  The story, which is about a family in Kiev during the winter/spring of 1918-1919, will make little sense unless you know what happened in Russia after 1916, the subsequent civil war and the rise of the soviets.  It reminds me of coming into a film which has already started (you have to guess the beginning bit), then you leave before the end and you have to imagine what happened.  Not my 'glass of tea' as they say.  It was written in 1923, so this may explain some of its oddities.
A difficult book to read. Of a different time and era.
dragged out
Not at all as good as previous books. The Book seems hurried, scattered thought, leading no where and chopped up....I hope more thought will be in Martin's continuation of the Throne books or hand it off to those who can continue in a more developmental way.  Sure messed up on this one.
I'm really sick of so much water in this book and I'm really happy that I've done with it. Hope the next one will be much better
This book was recommended to me but it is not to my taste. It was well written but even well written soap operas are not good.
To much grit and edge leaves you with nothing but a pile of sandpaper and razor blades.  Likeable characters left alive - none plot - MIA  Unfortunately, the author seems to think that killing off all of the main characters is still surprising. The first time he did it, sure, it caught everyone off guard, but by book five it only makes us determined to not care about the characters. Furthermore, the only bad guys they have killed in this series that loves to drench itself in its characters blood, is a little kid and that one bald guy (forgot his name). To top it all off though is the lack of any sequel coming out any time soon. The author is simply releasing spin offs of this series.  FYI: this is far from the worst series I have ever read, and I mean FAR from it. I am merely disappointed by such a critically acclaimed series having so many faults and lack of momentum. Read this first or second book, they are pretty good.
boring
Fairly dull and not a believable character.  Abandoned it halfway.
This book was not capturing at all. I was actually disappointed in story line. There was no personality in the characters and the book didn't seem to be completed when it ended. There could have better much more to the story - don't waste your time reading or listening to this book.
YIKES.  What a dysfunctional family, only made worse by the kidnapping of one of their children.  At first, I thought the author didn't get it.  But later on it was very clear she did,  So, I have to ask, what was the point? She belabored many issues to the extent that I wanted to skip whole sections.  Then she glossed over the end in a couple of pages, like she wanted to get it over with and wasn't quite sure how to do it. I didn't realize this is a series and there is a book 2.  Not for me.
I am only about 10 chapters in BUT my confusion is only mounting!! The re-telling of the storyline from Book 4 of Sam and Gilly leaving on a ship with Maester Aemon had me baffled. Also, didn't Pip and Gren die in the battle at the wall? And they show again alive and well in this book. After reading some of the other reviews from people that have completed the book, I do not have much hope. All the new (rambling) accounts from new characters is hard to follow! I am disappointed. Book 4 was my least favorite as it lacked many of the story lines I had really enjoyed in 1-3. I had really HIGH hopes for this book but....
(Spoiler alert)..It's quite difficult for some of us(especially men) to understand the grief a mother goes through when their child disappears. The book details the experiences of her and her family. The mother becomes dull and distance, the son became rebellious because of his guilt, etc. Frankly, the mother should have sought more counseling and/or medicine. Her sorrow and behavior made everyone else around her miserable.  The plot hole makes me want to vomit. 9 years later, the family moves 2 blocks away from where their son lives. ?? huh??  In conclusion, the build up, and the emotions are great. Maybe not worth reading, however.
I really didn't relate to the mother who had son kidnapped and became mentally ill.  She seemed to ignore the needs of her children and everything was about her.  In this day and age she would have been referred for counseling and medication.
It got boring in some spots. To me the author was ranting on trying to stretch the writing to fill up  pages.  Especially when Beth was thinking about her self. The story could of  elaborated more on Vincent,  the brother. Kerry, the sister, was hardly talked about. How did this affect her? The story started strong, but then got weak.
Interesting concept, well written-however, I never was pulled in enough to personally care about the characters.  Also, the lack of decelopment for the little sister was bothersome and distracting.  She was a space filler.
I finished this book because I had to know how it ended.  Ms. Mitchard is an excellent writer, and her story moves along at a good pace.  Her metaphors work with the story and don't interrupt anything. I really hated the main character, Beth, rather quickly.  Chapter 8 sealed for me how much I loathed her and gave me good reason, too.  She never redeems herself either.  This isn't a book about a family losing their son, it's about a Mom willfully abandoning her entire family.  When things get hard, she checks out, and near the very end of the book, when things get harder she decided to physically abandon it all too.  The only redeeming aspect of the book is Vincent. I would never re-read this book and I would never recommend it to anyone.
Too wordy and detailed, dragged on and on.  The story picked up just as I was starting to think about giving up on this book, only to fall flat again.  Do yourself a favor and skip this one.
The main character, Beth, was not very interesting, but the fact that the author kept building her up (or more acurately, tearing her down) led me to believe this would lead to something, but it didn't. She was pretty pathetic. If we were supposed to feel compassion for her, it didn't convey. I think the author did not do her job there. She should have kept the stronger focus on the Reese/Vincent and Ben/Sam characters. Nothing like having to read a book who's main character is annoying. So much of the story had nothing to do with the book as a whole. I think what readers are finding good about this book is some of the building up of characters and some interesting incidents would have led to a great book, but the author failed to pull it all together. I relate it to sitting on a plane or a bus and hearing snippets of stories of lives of people you don't know...and will never hear how things turn out or how they relate to other areas in their lives. Could be interesting stuff to listen to for a while, but Really ~ Who cares?
I took up this book years ago, after reading many positive reviews and hearing so many people talking about it.  What a waste of time!  The main character was totally unlikeable, for many reasons.  No. 1 was leaving a very young child in charge of an even younger one, then not acknowledging (as I recall) her own irresponsibility.  Instead, taking it out on other family members.  Her husband should have taken the other 2 children and left her.  They all would have been less screwed up.  And then, years later, the missing child just shows up on her doorstep?!  How realistic is that?!  Plus the writer is just not that good, even though she's apparently had a lot of success with this and other books.  Don't waste your time!
Too "wordie" for me.
I don't abandon books no matter what, I may stop reading it and pick it up again once in a while. If not for my one book a week challenge, it would take years to read this. It was grim, and Beth subsist on being miserable and making people around her miserable and hopeless. She was creative in making her life miserable. I feel bad for the husband and the kids. Their saving grace was their extended family and friends.
It's intriguing and compelling, but it's not good.  A good book affects you, changes you, and empathizes with you.  This one did none of that for me.  Curiosity compelled me to finish it out, but it was pointlessly depressing.
This story began as a real gut-wrencher with a kidnapping and its devastating impact on the victimized family. However, it was difficult to ever sympathize with the mother because she came across as so selfish throughout the book. That could be forgiven, but the ending (which I will not give away) was so ridiculously implausible that it ruined the entire book. By that point the story had pretty much run out of steam anyway, so it would have been difficult for any ending to wrap things up satisfactorily. This book would have gone nowhere had it not been pimped by Oprah.
The reason for this?  The auhor appears to think the purpose of novels is to see how long one can drone on about insubstantial things.  She does get around to a plot.  This is true.  The problem is that reading it would require drudging through extraneous paragraphs to reach a light that may or may not be at the end of the tunnel.  I don't appreciate this type of writing.  To me, it's just not worth the time.
And Ladies of the Club is much better than this, if this is your style. Author paints Emma as caring, but I don't see it
This book could have had it all: exciting plot, twists and turns, deep emotion.  But alas, it fell short.  It was hard to follow and hard to get into.
This book could have had it all: a great plot, twists and turns, tons of emotion.  But alas, it fell short.
The quote on the front of my book says "Riveting..twists that will spin you around."  I don't know who at Newsweek wrote that but I'm just an average Jane and not once was I "spun around" by something that happened.  It was a very depressing book, not riveting.  I picked it up and put it down several times, not really caring about the shallow, selfish characters and the only reason I even finished it was because it was the only book in my bag during a long plane ride. A child, Ben, is lost and found again after several years.  The book goes through these years focusing on the mother (who doesn't seem to really love any of her children) and the older, tortured, brother who "told Ben to go away."  This 447 page book could have easily been trimmed down to 150 pages for a better story.
..I just could not get myself to feel much sympathy or identification with Beth, the main character in this story. We all have our moments when we look away from our children because we are preoccupied.  I don't think many of us have them when our kids, who are all small, are in a busy lobby of a hotel in Chicago.  I felt the main character was narcissitic and shallow, and while there are certainly people like this in the world, to really connect with her in this particular story, it would have helped me to LIKE her, which I didn't.   While the book is well written and the storyline keeps the reader going, what I found to be the most intersting aspect of this book was the way the older brother was portrayed.  I found the guilt and his response to it to be what kept me reading this book.  I wanted to know that he would be okay.  While I found myself not really caring about the mother, I DID care about the son.  His feelings, as a confused child missing his favored younger brother, and as an older child, angry with the adults in his family, were captured well and he was a character I could care about.   I wouldn't say don't read this book at all, because I will read almost everything, but I wouldn't put this one at the top of my list.  Sorry Oprah!
Okay, take Ordinary People, but have the perfect son disappear, make the  surviving black sheep son a little younger, then follow his life for 9 years, but also shift the emphasis  of the novel to the horrid mother.  Throw in a major lesbian character, just to lock up the Oprah  endorsement, and since it is the 1990's, tack on a few media feeding frenzy elements.  Then bring the  dead kid back in a totally contrived plot twist and you've pretty much got this novel. Ms Mitchard is a good writer and the story is somewhat compelling--in particular, you sort of want to  know what happened to the missing son (the solution proves pretty perfunctory) and you mildly root  for the surviving son.  But, especially when the missing boy comes back, you have to ask yourself:  "Wasn't he better off away from this repellent mother?"  And this is a real weakness in the book.  If  you want us to feel some empathy for Beth, you can't have our first impression of her be her telling her  husband, unconcerned that the boys might hear her,  that she only loves her baby daughter.  And then,  when we're supposed to be feeling her pain later, you might want to drop the scene where she boinks  her high school boyfriend, with its pretty clear implication that she was so set on getting into his pants  at the reunion that she didn't care where Ben went. In the end, I just disliked Beth so much that I did not care what happened to her and hoped that the  whole family would escape her malignant clutches. GRADE: C-
I read the previous books.  This was supposed to be the conclusion.  Very disappointing.  It basically finished almost where it started.  We waited years for this book and nothing really started.  The author is just stringing us along to buy a sequel.
Although the author obviously has talent, she has wasted little of it on this book about characters with whom audiences do not wish to identify. The mother in this book is a basket case, completely uncaring  about her family, and the reader finds himself unable to sympathize with  her over the loss of her son.  Most readers will sympathize with her  husband instead; he has born the brunt of her problems for years and  continues to do so after she loses her son at a class reunion. I really  had problems getting into this book.  Admittedly, at the end, it did leave  me thinking about it somewhat, but it is slow and unrealistic.  I don't  consider this book to be any sort of "future classic."  If I  don't consider reading a book for a 2nd time, then something's wrong (my  friends have always teased me about reading books over and over); this book  was borrowed from a friend and returned promptly when I finished it. Not  horrible, but there are thousands of other books more worth your time.
I hated this book but I had to finish it to find out what happened with the kids.  I found the story inconsistent - Vincent/Reese makes a couple references to a gravy smell which was never resolved.  And,  wouldn't  someone spend more time talking to the child who was there when the other  was abducted?  Hypnosis or some sort of early counselling might have  brought out Vincent so that he wasn't a mess later on, plus they might have  had better leads. Additionally, I smelled Cecil as a rat very early on -  I knew it from the first introduction when the best friend made a catty  remark about her, and then when Cecil called to say she couldn't make it to  the group sending out flyers. The interruptions to the main plot were  just that - disrupting schlock -- the family restaurant and the re-igniting  old flames with the boyfriend. I wished I'd spent the time reading  Steinbeck or some real classic. The only reason this got 2 stars was  because it made me so mindful of realizing that I must be attentive to my  child,and one should never expect that a child can watch another child -  even for a minute.  They depend on us adults to do the supervision.
After writing three awesome books for the series, Martin decides to milk the proverbial money tit, or his editors/publishers did. In the 4th and 5th book, Martin could give even Henry James a run for his  money insofar as pointless descriptions of scenery that have nothing to do with plot. But what the heck, you are going to buy it anyway, no matter what me or anyone else says. So, looks like he had the right idea.
I decided to read the book instead of seeing the movie.  I should have waited for the movie.  There are those works of fiction that make better movies instead of books, this is one of them.  The story while interesting  was not very compelling.  The book offered very little in depth to the true  aspect to the emotion of grief.  What I thought might be a profound  testment to the human heart was really nothing more than a story of grief  in the form of total abandonment of her other two children and her own  selfishness.  I was ready to put it down but after I had invested the time  in reading over 200 pages, I trodded along to the end, which left me very  unimpressed.  The point at which this story ended really should have been  it's climax. Like I said I should have waited for the movie.
Mr Martin is taking way too long to get anywhere with this story.
I purchased THE DEEP END OF THE OCEAN right after Oprah recommended it, but just got around to reading it last week.  I thought the entire book was too contrived and I had a hard time plowing through it, even though I was determined to finish it to see what happened.  I thought some characters, like Pat, were not sufficiently developed, while others, like Candy, were over-developed.  The character I felt the most empathy for was Vincent, who never had a chance once Ben was taken.  He and Kerry had to make it on their own, and where was spineless Pat?  Anyway, sometimes I read Oprah's choices and sometimes I don't.  This is one time I wish I hadn't.
Ben was the lucky one to have been kidnapped from this weird and dysfunctional family. Beth was a terrible, selfish mother before and after the kidnapping and she didn't grow or evolve at all. Pat was a martyr. Kerry and Vincent were cruelly neglected. The only lucky one in this depressing book was Ben who ended up being the only one who had a good life.
too many characters over developed, then murdered
I had to struggle to get through this book.  The whole time I was reading the book, I thought "This can't possibly be the final draft!"  It felt slightly disjointed as though the connecting tendons were missing.  The story line was good and the premise was good, but the characters were rather unlikeable.  The most interesting/likeable character was Vincent/Reese. The story jumped from place to place/year to year in such a manner that I constantly realized that I was reading.  The next  Mitchard book I read (if I read another) will be from the library!
Never finished this book. After checking how long it was I just couldn't get into it. It just was boring to me.
This book is extremely difficult to follow. The storyline is much to involved. At the end of the book is an explanation of the relationships between all of the characters. This should have been available while struggling with them during reading of the book.
complicated language
I enjoyed reading this book, it kept my interest thought out. I would definitely recommend it to a friend. 4 Stars
I think this one is a filler... couldn't wait to finish it to see if anything had happened.... the only good thing is that "Reek" is OK....
Thought this book was a real let down. Could tell the ending was rushed and abrupt with probably no hope of seeing a book 6. HBO spinning their own story even beginning in Season 4. I know I cannot be the only one who is frustrated by the amount of time and description Martin goes through to detail characters to then just abruptly kill them off. It has apparently made him millions, so good for him. Just wished I did not get sucked in. I think Martin is an extremely talented, albeit lazy and greedy writer.
This was my least favorite book of the series.  I'm honestly getting rather frustrated with the whole thing.  He writes really cool characters but then never seems to give them interesting things to do.  For example, Jamie is supposed to be the best swordsman in all of Westros, so of course you cut off his hand.(?)  Dany has three dragons, so she locks two of them up and loses another.  Also, we hear endlessly about what people are wearing or eating but then the battles which we wait for end up not happening "live" but instead we hear about them in passing after they occur.  I don't know, I want to know what happens to the main characters, but at this point I don't know if I want to suffer through another long winded book.
Martin is just milking it at this point.  I've come to the conclusion that he would be a better script writer for a serial tv series than a novelist.  This story could have been told in three books instead of 7 or 8.  There are whole chapters where virtually nothing happens that couldn't have been told in a paragraph.  Why does every word of every conversation need to be recorded?  Why do I need a full description of every bit of food eaten at every meal eaten by every character.  This is great for a director planning a scene, but tedious for the reader.  Tolkien told a far more epic and metaphysical tale with far fewer words.  Get to the point already!!!!!!  I doubt I'll pick up book 6. Final point:  Do I really need to read references to genitalia on every page?
I read George R. R. Martin's first three books of the Song and Ice and Fire series several years ago, and loved them. More recently, I have also enjoyed the HBO series. I decided to read the latest two books in the series, but I have been extremely disappointed. As for all of the great fantasy genre authors, their genius is defined by their ability to tell a tale that draws the readers into the fantastical tale and world of their making. Martin's first three books were masterful in their ability to do this.  A Dance with Dragons and A Feast For Crows fell flat. The need for an author of an episodic story to sacrifice one book, A Feast For Crows,for example, to the Gods of literary exposition, might be acceptable to dedicated readers of the series. However, to publish two, LONG books that do virtually nothing to move the existing (wonderful) serial plot forward, and offer almost nothing new of value is unacceptable. When one is out of ideas and inspiration and when one has lost his love for the characters and worlds that he has wrought, it is far more honorable to end things quickly and succinctly than to insist that a dry cow give milk - no matter how bountiful the cow may have been in the past.
I really liked the first book and was hooked on the story.  As the series progresses it appears the author becomes more and more disinterested.  The latter books become filled with auto filled scenery.  It reminds me a lot of Conan or Remo Williams pulp where wordy descriptions are repeated over and over, word for word.  I will say the theme that no one is safe from the reaper is continued throughout the books.  That does make them somewhat unique.  Don't get attached.
I have read many great books by renowned authors over a lifetime, so my critique of this book is not because I'm a lazy reader. With this book, I not only wish I had not started this series, but I have no interest in reading any sequel. I give it two stars mainly for the effort the author made to amass the magnitude of detail. It would have garnered more stars from me had there been character development and a stronger story line and less indulgence in gross violence and wanton behavior. To put it simply, if you enjoy endless violence and lust, you may enjoy this book. If you are looking for light at the end of the tunnel or any other kind of moral resolution, I recommend looking elsewhere.
After downloading it to my kindle it hasn't worked. I have been unable to open.
Very disapointing,it seems to be the author wants to prolongue the stories  based in past success,he keeps creating new personajes and situations  and no dedicated to the hart of the novel,the Starks,the Lanisters,etc. I would like to read more of Bran,Arya,Jon ,James,and less of new persons and very incredible situations. one gets tired of some many different situations. I hope the next be the final ....at last.. lets see..........
Starts well, then FIZZLES. Offers very little closure to the numerous subplots. Obviously Martin was getting paid by the word, NOT for his storytelling ability the first four books exhibited.
After slogging through 5 of these books, I get the distinct impression that Mr. Martin doesn't have a vision for where any of these stories are going.
I think he's just about killed off everyone I cared to read about.  I may return to this series again, but for now, this is where I jump off.
Losing interest in this series.  Too many new characters still being introduced and most sympathetic characters from previous books being killed off.
This series is so protracted that I am really losing interest in it. This particular book has a handful of plot developments, but not worth the hundreds of pages spent. I got more value from reading an online summary of the book. I searched for the summary because I felt I had to have missed something more from the book. Nope, the one page synopsis was it. This delayed publishing scenario reminds me of Stephen King's Gunslinger series, which I was really into but gave up on after being strung along for decades. My suggestion is to pass on this book, deal with it and move on.
Did any one of the people bashing the book, note the bottom of the cover, where it ISN'T WRITTEN BY TOM CLANCY. Tom Clancy's Op Center is the name of the series, originally by Tom Clancy. This literary abortion was not written by him, but by another no name contracted. Learn to recognize who wrote a book before you write off an author wholesale.
This is the first TC's book I read and maybe I'll give him a second chance. But someone can tell me where's the plot? Spain is willing to have an upheaval, so what? Nobody there want the CIA involved so they make some kind of gore war. I've had read awfully better books than this one.  Query: Did the CIA thwarted a revolution in Spain?
I want to begin by saying that I read not to critizice someone else's writting but to enjoy and spend some time emerged in different worlds and adventures that I could not otherwise experience :), and that because of that I do not consider any book to be GOOD or BAD, they are just different. That said, when I started this book I had high hopes based on the writters name, but I was deeply dissapointed. The story never seems to get your full attention, there is no action developed long enough to keep you turning the page, the plot seems to stall for the most part of the book, heck not even good caracter development, to the point where it is even hard to figure out who the main caracter is. As a native spanish speaker I was very amused by the many  innacuracies in the "spanish" lines in the text.  If you are going to use a foreign language in your dialog the least you can do is research it and have it edited with a little bit more accuracy and interest.  I mention this because it is not an occasional use of the spanish language but a very frequent one, and it gets to be annoying. As I said at the start of the review, there is no GOOD or BAD book in my opinion, they are all somewhat entertaining, but this is one that is not going to make my list of memorable reads.
tedious,
The story wandered too much. If there was ever an outline for this book it was thrown out after the first few pages. I was very disappointed. Very disjointed story line.
There is a chapter that is almost identical to a chapter in the last book. It about Samwell being sent away to Old town. What's up with that? Beginning to feel  like the author has no idea how to wrap it up. Sure wish some of the Stark family could reunite.
Dear Mr Martin,  It's now past time to wrap up this story.  While I like all the characters, nothing substantial really happened that required this many pages. this book could have been a quarter the length.
I was very disappointed in the way the last book of this series ended. It left so many issues and characters unresolved. There was no finality to the entire story. i read all five of the books. There has to be a follow up that ties up all the lose ends. Personally I did not like tha fact that every character I became attached to was killed off. I was throroughly engrossed in the the epic story telling, but extremely let down at the ending.
Disappointing ending...or is it another prequel to a sequel?
If it wasn't for preceding 4 novels I doubt you could maintain any level of interest.
Meh.  uncharacteristic decisions make it less enjoyable than the first 3 books.
Very boring.  It's all about the wars and not too much about the characters we have grown to love!
"Valar marseries" All great book series must die.  Unfortunately this is the book in which the greatest fantasy series ever written does just that.  From the long chapters on completely irrelevant characters, to the abandonment of all the characters and story lines that make "a song of ice and fire" great. This book is the end.
This guy is a master in regards to creating a world through the eyes of each character.  We get to be in their thoughts, their insecurities, and their wants.  He seamlessly switches from one character to the next giving them such individuality that you become sympathic to each of their plights.  We get to see their predicaments strictly from their point of view and watch them react to a world masterly created.  That being said; I hate these books.  Yes, I read these because of the tv show and the many fans and friends that recommended them for their originality and lack of predictability.  Yes, I turned pages, many pages but along with the rest I have been dooped.  Dooped by endless cliffhanging, dooped by stories drown out for a reader that hoped for endings that never occur.  Dooped by pages full of names of nobodies and descriptions of someone breaking their fast only to make the naturalistic story-telling feel that much longer.  He chose only to show us characters destined for failure, characters that are despicable, or character there only to move plot along.  After catching on to his formula, I became indifferent to the characters thus making the story, where very little happens, that much more tedious.  Finally in the last few pages he pulls the rug out from underneath the reader with usually a death of a vital character.  I will say he does know very well how to get people to turn pages; because I turned pages. I turned too many.
I have been reading this dang book for months. Still only half way through.  Martin is destroying the storyline with to many new people.  I can't tell who they are, what side they are fighting for, nothing!  You get a chapter now and then you recognize a character then back to people you don't understand how they fit the story.  I think a lot of people will not like Season 5 of the HBO series when they try making this one.  If Martin manages to pull a book out of his XXX he better bring it back to the characters the readers and viewers want to know more about.  If you aren't going to use them anymore then just kill them off for pity sake.  I do not like this book. It is going to take me all winter to finish and I started it in early spring I believe.  I bought all 5 books last fall.  This one has left everything flat and confusing. What the heck was he thinking when he wrote this? Did he forget what book he was writing and started a whole new one part way through?  That is what it feels like. Like he slammed another book inside the story line.
The story is really amazing and I am a big fan of it. But this book is poorly written. Many times, it gets boring. RRMartin abuses the same chapter ending (lining something unexpected in the air) over an over. An excess of characters that are only in name, makes it difficult to follow (even more than before!)  Honestly, RRMartin could have written only one book with the 4th and the 5th.  Luckily, this book is only for fans. Otherwise, I can't imagine anyone buying it. I hope in the promised 6th book, RRMartin gets inspired again.
I found this book a long, slow and frustrating read.  While well written, I found some chapters dull, and unclear why they were even part of the story.  The repeated introduction and killing of characters, and the repeated switching between different story lines was frustrating.  While I enjoyed the first four books, I did not enjoy this one.  I doubt I'll read any future book in this series.
I have endured Mr. Martin's five books, with the hope that they would ultimately be a "good reading experience" (whatever that ultimately really means).  I have written about multiple novels and series novels, and to some extend the novels that merely continue one to the next in multiple volumes (like the old Victorian three-deckers).  All, to varying degrees, have had some kind of closure, which I think readers want and actually need.  Mr. Martin does not provide closure; indeed, I cannot see that he has any design at all other than to continue to proliferate characters and mayhem/death/sexual outrages.  I can almost accept the latter three-fold outrages, but I really need to have a novel that has some structure.  Unlike some who have review these books, I do not have serious (well, I do have some) concerns about his chapter decisions based upon point of view.  He does usually develop character and a sense of setting with this design, but it gives him the opportunity to simply dodge the need to tie up plot and coordinate timelines.  In a world that, it seems to me, to demand a bit more tidiness in its fiction (written or otherwise), Mr. Martin's writing is not satisfactory.  I got sucked into the books (N.B.:  I have not watched the television series Game of Thrones).  I will not continue, despite the number of subsequent volumes he produces.  The Lord of the Rings, while not a great single novel (in three volumes), was nonetheless a shaped story, with a beginning, middle and end.  This is my kind of fiction, albeit fantasy and not my favorite kind of fiction.  This is my first post about any amazon-delivered work.  It may well be my last, as most of what I download is by authors or about matters that I really care about.  M.K. Bequette
Man, this book was painful. Once the find-the-"e" game gets stale (about page 8), the rest of the novel is a tedious exercise in literary masochism. The only thing more amazing than the fact some guy wrote a book without using the letter "e" is that another guy came along and translated it into English. Even Perec himself apologizes for how boring it is, telling the reader by page 190 or so that he would be surprised if anybody made it that far. Well I did. And I've come back alive to tell you it's not worth it.
See the other more detailed reviews... SPOILER ALERT:  Nothing happens in this book.
I'd agree with the statement, "Twenty four characters in search of a story." It goes on and on and on. I fear he just produced this book because the publishers wanted him to and not because he was inspired. He is a really good writer. This book doesn't represent what he can do.
One of the more boring books I've read in a long time.  I enjoyed the first three in the series but have been let down since then.
Its a filler book like your girlfriend telling you about her day nothing of importance really happened and its long and sorta boring but but you would feel like a bad boyfriend if you told her to shut up and didn't listen
After all that, is this the best that can be written? Certainly it was a disappointing end to a far too long, engrossing waste of pages.
I love the series but found the last two books tedious. Too much focus on minor characters and just an abandonment of main characters. I found myself wanting to just finish the book and be done.
Great read page turner
This book was terribly disappointing.  Basically because it was nothing more than a "filler" book.  Lots of characters moving locations to no real purpose.  There was no character development, no real additions to the plot.  I think you can skip this book and hope that the next one is as good as the first 4.
Much too long with plodding detail.  I love the story lines but I didn't think I would ever finish reading it. This book runs parallel to book number 3 and at times it really gets confusing. This was my least favorite of the series so far.
writer adds even more new characters in a boring story, obviously afraid to bring this story to an end. let's hope that he has the courage to finish in book 6. Such a pity, a great story everyone wants to read about the final battles, not new story side steps and new characters. George, put these stories in a different book and write an end your fans deserve.
I have enjoyed the series on Audible. Audible reviewers warned against listening to the heavy handed (voiced) version, so I bought the Kindle version. Mr. Martin is in serious need of a decent editor. Does he get paid by the word?  Unpronounceable, forgettable names for too many characters. Too many floating story lines. This tale should be pared down to, say, a dozen main characters, cut the fluff and verbiage. Who cares about the banners and sigils of unimportant and soon to be forgotten, extraneous and unimportant characters?  I found myself putting the book down for months at a time and then skimming over pages and pages, trying to find the storyline.  A great disappointment.
Before this book, I really loved Game of Thrones.... Why are we still adding more characters????  GRRM seems like he's losing momentum, killing off characters we love and adding ones that don't add to the story line.  Is he writing for the readers or for HBO.
I was really addicted to this series, each book I read one after the other nonstop. Then came this volume. I've read a few chapters but I don't even get through one now before putting it down. Here is the thing. Absolutely nothing happens. Nothing. It's just kind if boring fill for what we already know happened.
I first started reading this book in 2011 when it first came out. If only Martin would FINISH this series. I am too vested to stop reading and I need the closure.  All the books are LONG and they drag on a bit. A Dance with Dragons isn't even book 5. It's really an addendum to book 4. I am a bit lost now since it's been THAT long since I have read the last book. Some of the chapters are a difficult read as I am finding that I use this book to help me go to sleep.  I had borrowed this book from my local library back in 2011.  I returned this book to the library after having made it only to page 145. I couldn't NOT put it down (translation: snooze fest). I was forcing myself to get through a chapter a day, but the length of the book and the fact that it was a loaner from the library was too much pressure.  UGH the endless details and rambling. Just. get. to. the. point. Lucky for me, I wasn't one of those poor saps that had to wait umpteen years for Martin to release this one as I had read the other books in the past two years.  I bought the Amazon Kindle version this year with a goal that I will read a few pages each day and hopefully get through the end.  I shouldn't punish myself this way - I may not ever finish it, but if I am having trouble falling asleep, I know I can just grab this book and be out in about 15 minutes.
That's what this book makes me think of.  Edna St Vincent Millay wrote life is not one damn thing after another, it's the same damn thing over and over again. As for Perry Mason he was fond of objecting "incompetent, irrelevant, & immaterial.  I think that pretty much sums up this book.  Unless of course you want to drag in JK Rowling who after her third book either fired her editor, or thought she was being paid by the word.  I see a distinct similarity.  Perhaps they both caught their hubris from Oedipus.
I found myself flipping through numerous pages, because the dialogue was repeated many times, and it was slow and uninteresting.
It was a absolutely chore to dig through this book. I did not read it because it was enjoyable, only because I intend to read the next book and missing a hole can be difficult. I hope that Martin has not reached the hubris of Lucas where he begins taking a colossal dump on the good will he built up because no editor has enough stones to tell him that he needs to make some cuts.  While I blame the last two book on the author - this is really a failure of the editor. An editor should be willing to tell even a strong author that cuts need to be made and areas tightened up. This is his Phantom Menace - pray there is no Attack of the Clones to follow.
Two books happening at the same time...by the time you get to tihis book with all of the people and strange names that are all alike you're wishing for less crap and more content.  Dance With Dragons??  Seriously??  That little appearance was a dance?  He spends pages on insignificance and minimal detail on the important issues and people.
Though good in parts, this fifth installment of the series is the weakest by far. Here, the attention to detail that Martin is usually so rightly praised for becomes his enemy, leading to long, protracted chapters where very little actually occurs. Here's hoping Book 6 sees a return of the author's storytelling genius.
I loved the first 3 books in this series, but after that it went downhill.  The author said at the end of Book 4 that at some point he realized  he had enough material for two books and split it into Book 4 and Book 5.  He was mistaken!  Where was the editor?  Book 4 and Book 5 should have been cut in half and made into one good book instead of two weak books.  And winter hasn't even arrived yet.  All that being said, I'll probably still buy Book 6, but if it's no better than 4 and 5, I won't finish it and won't continue reading the series.
Long descriptions of characters and places never before heard of.  I assume that somewhere down the line these places and characters will be brought back into the story, but the characters we were following were no where to be seen for a good portion of the beginning of the book.  The ending, of course, ends with us wondering what happens to the characters we know and love.  Now I wonder just how many books there are coming and if it's worth continuing to follow the series.
I'll begin by saying I agree with most of the statements made by most of your reviewers that gave this book a poor review. I need not repeat their well-stated comments. Mssrs. Goodkind, Jordan and most of all Martin, in my opinion had the opportunity to stand with Tolkien on the exhalted pedestal of  of the truly great fantasy writers of all time. Their series started out wonderfully. Along the way, the fell off the pedestal. In Martin's latest book no major issues are resolved and nothing really significant really happens. The same thing happened with "The Wheel of Time" and "The Sword of Truth". I stopped buying them way before they ended. In my humble opinion, he and both the aforementioned authors fell victim to the fact that they could merely write words and make money. The more words they could write, the more money they could make. Hence, books were written that only dragged out the series. Both of those series should have been wrapped up Volumes before they did. This is truly a shame as all three of them posessed awesome talent and were capable of true literary greatness. Hopefully Mr. Martin has the chance to fix it.
Maybe I opened this book with too high of expectations. I love the Fear Street series, have since I was a kid. I may have a BA in English, bu I still love to read these during TV comerials and smoke breaks. Anyways, to make a too long story short, I HATED this book. I didn't connect with any of the characters, and the plot left too many gaping holes. Also, while trying to please "adults" Stine left all of his charm on the cutting room floor. I only spent .50 on this at a garage sale, yet I still feel I was ripped off. The only reason I gave this terrible book 2 stars is beacause the idea was original, and I still love the Fear St. books.
The writing in this book was so poor, I felt as if I was reading a parody of some sort. Like a 'How Not To Write Horror' manual. I'm not entirely sure why I finished the book. I had some hope that it would improve, and it was also so ludicrous that I had to find out how bad it could get.  The characters were cheesy and two dimensional, the plot was predictable and often silly.  I also got the impression that Mr. Stine was desperate to drive into readers' heads that this is NOT a young adult novel. I think he went overboard with descriptions of sex scenes and foul language. I'm not a prude, but I think his attempt to make this story adult was overkill.  I'm disappointed but not terribly surprised because it's so difficult to find really good horror writing.
I enjoyed the previous books, but here Martin looks like he's stitching together pieces he edited out from previous drafts.  Many scenes are irrelevant, don't move the plot forward.  Too much filler in this book compared to the others.
I find it insanely funny that Sara thinks to herself (about the rejected manuscripts) 'Don't these people know how bad their writing is?' I could ask the same of Stine regarding this book. It's not completely bad, seeing how I enjoy the character of Liam, but I see him as Naveen Andrews who is definitely not Irish.... Why all the cursing and sex? Is there really a reason for it, other than wanting the book to sound adult? Was this thing edited at all? Anyway, I hope R.L. Stine sticks to his yound adult/pre-teen stories, they are a LOT better, IMO.
I did not feel any sympathy for these jacked-up characters and when someone finally got their scalp ripped off and their spine crushed, I merely felt relief that this was one less pathetic personality I had to  keep track of. The dialog was as vapid as the intelligence of the lead  character, Sara Morgan, who has an IQ of about room temperature and  performs the expected Dumb-Damsel moves that makes for typical schlock  suspense. (Oh gosh, can Liam really, really be so bad? Golly, Gee!)  The  story concept promises something terrifying along the lines of Saul, King  or Koontz, but the terror it delivers is tame enough for Mr. Rodgers  Superstitious Neighborhood.
First of all, I must say that I loved R.L.Stines young adult novels (Fear Street series).  So, I was hyped when I discovered he was trying his writing hand at an adult novel.  The day it came out, I had it. I was  disappointed, to say the least.  The plot was far too predictable.  His  Fear Street books had more plot twists.  Plus he used a recycled plot  formula.  What do I mean by recycled plot formula?  Well, if you must, read  the novel and you'll discover what I mean. Don't get me wrong, it wasn't a  horrible book, I've read much worse, but I have read much much better.  Example; Stephen King's Bag Of Bones is one of the greatest novels of the  supernatural I have ever read.  I'd give Bag O' Bones a look at before  reading Superstitious.
It's kind of fun, but very predictable.  He points you in a couple of directions but you can see the spin from a mile away.  He uses some false thrills to simulate suspense in a couple of places.  It only annoys because  it's too cute, and reminds you of Goosebumps.  Nice touch at the end.  He  does some cool telegraphic tension stuff with his prose: Little short  bursts.  The shadows ahead.  Etc.  The protagonist is too stupid to live,  however.  Uh, maybe she should have thought things over, or maybe called  the cops right away, or maybe something else resembling common sense.  Nice  trashy read.
The book could have been 500 pages shorter & held my interest. As is, I think George gets caught in verbal quicksand way too often.
After spending months becoming invested into to such a large group of characters, the story is just starting to drag on.  No one achieves and many of the main characters just die.
Had to read this because it was the most recent after reading the others. I was warned by another reader that a lot of page flicking went on but went ahead anyway -- a lot of page flicking went on!  Very ticked off at apparent disposal of a key character, although he may recover in the next one?
The premise of the series is great as are the first 4 books, but the 5th was a lot of redundancy with sparse dialogue and rambling descriptions of every meal, random character and environ. When I got to 85% and there was no resolution in sight, I was disappointed to say the least. It appears the author is milking this story for all it's worth. Way too many characters and even more seem to pop up at random. Too many twists to the point of chaos and the characters seem to be all over the planet. There is no sense of time passage or continuity to the flow of events. Also it seems that everyone`s dreams have to be included in the storyline at some point. I will probably read book 6 but if it's more off the same and doesn't end, I'm done.
Hard to get through this book.  Enough already. Just tell me how it ends.  Thankfully hbo is doing a better job
I tried to like this edition of the story but unfortunately there were few chapters that captured my imagination. Wordy, descriptive, little action. I know it's mid story but I have no interest in all the courses of a meal. On top of that I think GRRM has pretty much knocked off the most interesting people and fails to create new ones who capture you.
While the story of Sato continues, the authors seemed at a loss for succinct fiction.  Instead, we have a tedious story of overly descriptive adjectives of people, places, and events.  I am a Van Lustbader fan and will continue the Linnear series .  It is my hope Eric can find his way back to his original style.  He owes it to his readers...it is his giri.
I started reading about Nicholas Linnear several years ago starting with'The White Ninja' and 2 other novels in that trilogy.  Recently I was interested about the character and wanted to read it on my Kindle so I chose 'Kaisho'. I was totally disappointed and read this novel very slowly because it never caught on with me. My primary disappointment was that the central character was missing in action.
Martin has definitely lost his way. Seems like he's struggling to keep this Series alive. I don't recommend this book.
I've just read all five books in one long gulp, and with book #5 it's clear that Martin has lost control over or lost the sense of his overall story structure.  When a writer adds new characters and new threads in book #5, he's not on track.  It wouldn't take two more books to wrap up this story with the main characters.  If Martin doesn't write the ending--and it doesn't look like he will any time soon--the TV producers surely will write the ending.
After investing so much time and money into a series, I expect better. Especially when you know an author is capable but just didn't provide. I was disappointed with A Dance with Dragons. I disliked how the fourth and fifth books were split, anyhow, but if this is all that happens it could have been a few short chapters in the last book. Martin needs to focus his time into thickening his plot, not length! So much of this could have been cut...I struggled to keep reading and that should never happen.
Book doesn't really advance the story at all. Author is obviously trying to extend a story outside its life cycle.
Five books of building story, lots of action and description and a vague plot.  When do we get to root for someone?  What I'd give for a simple protagonist.
The book is a winding read and seems like the author is just dragging it on for no reason. I've been reading the Tyrion parts and even those have become dull
ASoIaF has mounted the same mare that Robert Jordan's "Wheel of Time" series did... Unfortunately, that mare is excruciatingly slow-paced, and more of a mule, truth be told.  Very little seems to have actually happened in this book, in comparison to Martin's first three in the series (I feel the 4th book also suffered from pacing, but major, memorable events did occur in the midst of the plodding, at least).  Though I don't think the following really contain major spoilers, please discontinue reading if you're worried about ruining the experience:  Tyrion is different from his previous characterizations in canon. He meanders this way and that on his way to Dany... (But still has not reached her by the end of the book)... all the while his internal dialogue gets more and more whiny. Gone is the quick-witted Imp who always has a few cards to play in his favor. He is now a babysitter for a young (and somewhat sow-headed) idealistic dwarf.  Dany literally sits in one place, waiting for things to happen. Gone is the "Mother of Dragons" who makes decisions with authority. She is now Dany the great procrastinator and second-guesser, becoming uncertain at the mere sight of an alternate viewpoint.  Arya is barely in the book at all, and no mention even of Sansa (unless you count the footnotes).  Cersei has the most character development in the whole book, and I found that to be intriguing, but THAT doesn't even truly happen until the last eighth of the book.  The major events for Jon also happen near the end, with no REAL character development for him on the whole... Just a repeat of "life is hard for Jon at the Wall."  All in all, the book has that "stalling" feel... Like Martin was just filling word counts until he got to the cliffhangers... I honestly feel the book could have been trimmed to half and we wouldn't have lost any important information.  But honestly, I hope I'm wrong.  Martin did a superb job with his first three books in this series, and I'm holding out that he has some fantastic payoffs planned... But  ADwD was underwhelming as a whole.
Very slow book. He takes too long to get anywhere. Characters are great but no sooner do you get to know them and he kills them off. Overly complicated amount of characters and hard to keep track of them all. Overall a disappointing book. It will be the last in the series I read.
Too many new, incidental characters.......and it DID NOT END!!!!!!! No questions were answered, no resolution........just floating loose ends.......................hopefully the HBO series will explain more!
I was really into the first couple books but am getting serious GOT fatigue. In the beginning it was interesting with the plot twists and not the typical 'knight in shining armor' storyline. But the last two books have not advanced the main plot lines at all. This is getting ridiculous. At this point I don't care if there are any more books to come out.
Mr. Martin is in desperate need of an editor! As an example: When 100 boys are delivered as hostages to the wall, every single one of them is described in minute detail. It is all very well written, but really!! Also, you have clifhangers that are not resolved til 5-600 pages later, when you have totally forgotten what it were all about. It makes you loose track of the overall story.
Though the story kept my attention enough to continue reading to the end, the storytelling is lacking. Splitting up the storylines into two books that take place at the exact same time is a terrible mistake and only made me lose interest in other characters. Out of all of the books, this book has the least action as well--nothing dramatic happens as compared to the sinister nature of the other books. Martin has a lot of work to do to appease his readers in the next book. I hope he can pull it off because otherwise he's set himself up to a lot of pressure and with the tv series he's only attracting attention for what may be a dramatic failure.
Like the previous book in the series, the story just goes on .. and on ... and on ... and nothing gets resolved. Martin can spend a full page describing what the participants are wearing at a meeting and then kill off a significant character in a short paragraph. I was entranced with the first two volumes, but now getting through the book is more of a chore than an adventure. I keep looking at the percentage left on the kindle and thinking - is anything going to happen?... is it over yet?
George Martin goes on and on to painfully describe the never ending story  The charactersr you loved at first become tiresome and you wish they would meet their bloody end so this book would end too. it takes a lot of endurance to get this far.  George please end the story.
If you think the saga ends with this book you are mistaken.  It is simply a link with more to come.  I found it tedious with no further development of major characters and lots of tedium with minor characters.  The first four books were wonderful.  It was downhill from there.
Don't waste your time.  Stay away.  You will never get back the time you spent reading this book and life is too short.
The last five chapters are great. Everything else is filler. Get to the point in the next book please. I hope we don't miss out on any of the battles he had set us up for.
I read book three and loved it.  Book four was alright.  Kept waiting for book 5 to get cheaper so I could afford to buy it,  Finally. it got cheap enough that I could afford it. What a waste of good paper!  There's just too much information that,s not required for the plot.  Could have been written in 600 pages instead of 1100 pages. I'll finish but it's more of a chore than enjoyable reading.
The story is great and well written.  I appreciate the vocabulary and how well it is written.  BUT!!!!  Martin has obviously landed on a cash cow being that it is a mini series for HBO and he makes these books long and drawn out.  If I have to read more history I could scream, not to mention that each book has to recap the previous books.  It was even more disappointing that I get to the middle of the book, at which point it seemed like this would be the finally, and there were more characters introduced.  End the story already....  Oh, that the amount of perversion in the book kills it from being truly great.
Dances with Dragons was a very tough slog. This book, like the last, didn't push the story along. Yes, there is the unexpected character deaths, gratuitous sex, meal and clothing descriptions we have come to expect from Martin, but this book could have likely been cut in half with little or no impact on the story. Hoping the next novels are better.
After reading all five books, i am no nearer to an ending than at the start. Martin creates too many characters, too many plot lines and jumps about from place to place so much that the reader becomes tired and distracted. The read becomes an endeavor. One hopes that the main story line will eventually win out but book after book leaves the reader with " buy my next book". At the end of this 5th book, it merely ends with a murder. I became interested in the books because of the cable movie. However, I now understand why the screenplay deviated so much from the books. The movie writers wanted to create some level of closure.
I have never done this before this book, but I have skipped large numbers of pages looking for a story.  All I read are inane details, like George R.R. Martin just likes the sound of his own voice, or the appearance of his own writing I should say.  The fact that it has taken two separate books in order to address all of the characters over a fairly short period of time where almost nothing happens means that Martin needs a new editor at the least.  Someone needs to cut his books in half or more.  Someone needs to cut away the unnecessary description, because it isn't like his descriptions are poetic or great literature.  I give up.  I have tried and tried to get through the last three Martin books in this series, but I give up.  I am not going to waste any more time.
While GRRM's talent is still apparent in the writing style the plot is gone.  You'll feel like you're treading water within his world when you've become accustomed to swift pace in books 1-3.  The biggest tragedy is that the meandering handling of the characters.  You won't look forward to seeing a name pop up at the top of a chapter like before.  In fact you'll likely dread some.  By midway through I began to hope this book was just a vessel to finally kill off Daenerys.  That hope wasn't enough to justify reading the second half...  The book feels like those albums that musicians put out to get out of their label contracts.
I find myself no longer waiting for the next installment of this series. There are now 30 main characters that do nothing, but complain. All of the characters that had any redeeming qualities are dead, , and we are left with long boring descriptions of rape and disgusting food. I might as well watch reality television.
Book 4 and 5 have weak plot lines and do little else but move a timeline a bit further.  It makes the creation of books meaningless as the stories do not culminate in any way.  I found myself skipping pages to avoid long winded passages introducing new characters while killing off any to which you make any attachments.
There's not a whole lot that can be added to Macaroni's excellent review here: http://www.amazon.com/review/RQMHSVDEC80QE  In sum (without the spoilers): a whole lot of wordiness happens, but not a lot of actual *happening* happens.  There are also several instances where a character has one or two POV chapters, ending in a cliffhanger - and then never reappears for the rest of the book.  And like all books in the series, it ends at a more or less random point, without anything being resolved or even any particular cliffhangers for the overall plot.  Tremendously unsatisfying.
i loved the first 3 books in the series, absolutely amazing but book 4 and 5(this book) i had to force myself to finish. those are the only books i can honestly say that about and i have read hundreds of books. i forced myself to sit through book 4 thinking it would be good and 5 had to be better since it was the characters i liked. don't get me wrong i know everyone has different taste in characters and books, but book 4 isn't worth going through to get to get to 5. daenarys is my favorite and she hardly even shows up except the last chapter focuses on her. in my opinion 1-3 are amazing and a delight to read..but stop there and enjoy the experience..but its not worth going further..
I don't read much but I loved the HBO series & I wanted to know the whole story before spoilers ruined it for me....  Just like in the SOUTH PARK edition, "a song of ass & fire", it was all about nothing, is it over, no not really but who cares anyway let's do something else....  A treadmill of a read, words words words words words & then nothing, your still in the same place....  I wanted to give a glowing review, this book was the greatest of all time but just like the dragons, there is no fire....  In SOUTH PARK, Butters is mad, "you promised us dragons & zombies, WELL ? Where the hell are they ? "  I now know that same feeling....
It didn't wrap up anything!!! Terrible way to end a series...like "what happened to:" Brieene, Aria, Sensa, John Snow, Lady Catlain, Sersie, King of the North, ad infinitum.....just a terrible waste of my time and money.
A great series has become merely tedious. It's long past time for these story lines to be brought to a close. This book is boring, dreadfully slow and not worth the effort. GRRM can take as long as he likes for the next installment, or better yet, never finish it. The first three books were brilliant, but these last two are a poor finish to what he started.  Hopefully, HBO will bring in some fresher, younger blood to wrap up the series, lest all the actors die of old age meandering their way through this ponderous mess.
The storyline is not consistent.  Some characters are forgotten or dropped without explanation.  If you read four, you are left without a feeling that you are in the same series as books one, two and three.  Book five ties more of this together, but there is still a feeling of incompleteness at the end of five--story lines not terminated at good spots, characters that were big in other books never mentioned, etc.
wanted to like the book, but not much happens.  A very frustrating read.  If you do read it, do yourself a favor and just read the first and last page of every chapter and save yourself some time.  Most of what's left is each character reminiscing about past events over and over again.
.. to keep reading this book.  I am not even a 1/3 of the way in and feel like I'm walking in quicksand and the further I go the more I sink and all I can feel is the terror of drowning so slowly and boringly that people will just stand and laugh at me.  I may be able to pick this back up later .. maybe.  I realy feel that this book (even more so than one of the others, which I can't remember at this point as my mind is filled with sludge minutae) was drawn out purposely.  Don't keep dragging things out, man.  Give the story some peace and end if it you need to and move onto another project.  That slow, agonizing, dying death sound is me suffering through the pages.
Once I received the book, it was damaged, pages where folded, some had tears, the back had cracks and some pages had smudged letterings. The story itself was great but the book itself was in horrible condition.
It's turned into a soap opera...never ending! Will there ever be THE king of the throne or is everybody scheduled to go through torture and a terrible death?
Okay. I'm done. No more Song of Ice and Fire books for me. After trying to follow the characters that I was supposed to remember from volumes #1 through #4, and doing a fair job of it while studying blow-ups of the tiny maps at the front of the book, I decided the effort wasn't worth it. Yes, I still care whether or not Arya regains her sight, Jon succeeds in defending the broken kingdoms from the evils descending upon them from beyond the wall, Tyrion finds his true love, Caytlin is reunited with her children, the direwolfs find their masters, Bran reaches his goal, and Daenerys finally rides a dragon. But honestly, the bloated writing and over-the-top cruelty and violence do not compel me to continue reading anymore. Someone, please give me a summary of what happens at the end of Volume #6 or #7 or #8, or whichever one is the end, and I'll be happy.
Perils of Pauline like with cliff hangers at the end to keep one interested enough to read the next book. Lots of narrative but not much substance. why are the good characters so dim witted generally. Too many plot lines. I'd still like to know what happens next but fear I will be disappointed.
Well, its not all depressing. Interesting plot lines, intriguing, HOWEVER, I do not understand why Martin continues to kill off the most loved characters. I am not looking for a "happy ending" but it would be lovely to see a good character prevail. After all these books, freaking Cersei is still alive and that kills me!  Also, why does Martin feel the need to describe in detail all the food that is served at feasts? Cut out all that verbiage and perhaps the book may be shorter by 50 pages. For real.
Book arrived in a timely manor.  Obviously it is a second or cull.  Some of the pages were cut off where it made a few of them difficult to read.  Should have been advertised as such.
The book was okay. That being said I'm not really looking forward to the next book the only reason why I even got this far into the series is because I bought the boxed set thinking I'd like them. People seem to like Martin for his more realistic world where no one is a hero, but though there is some truth to that he fails by making everyone a criminal. From the ubiquitous lack of morality to the never ending aggrandizement of the characters the book seems to aimlessly wonder with no goal in mind. I really tried to enjoy these books and everything that was available in my effort to do so. I even found myself intrigued at points, but looking back my time could have been better spend elsewhere.
The story has lost its keen edge, and is weighed down in settings and characters that do not measure up to the core cast. Returning characters people have been waiting for since A Storm of Swords seem to be stuck in limbo away from any meaningful plot.  Here is hoping Winds of Winter blows the series back to its roots.
It was boring and never really went anywhere.  I only recommend reading it if you have read the first 4 books.
I'm getting disheartened and disappointed with this series.  I'm no longer confident GRRM will be able to bring this series to a satisfactory conclusion in the next 2 decades.  GRRM has diluted the strength of his series heavily with all this meaningless wandering and tangential plotlines.  If he keeps going in this direction, then Book 6 will take place over a single day across 100 different POVs.  A Song of Ice and Fire really grabbed my attention and captivated my imagination when I first started with Game of Thrones.  After Book 3 I was surprised that so much was still unresolved, but was still captivated and interested.  2 books and 10 years later I am tired of waiting for GRRM to bring this thing in for a landing.  Where do editors go?
He has really lost a few steps, and I am thinking he really doesn't know where he's going with these characters.  That, or he just doesn't know how to get there.  Make us wait five more years for a book, and you may as well read it yourself; to wait this long for a book I have to force myself to finish is not encouraging at all.
What started out as a great story has become bogged down by the author's penchant for convolution, over-description, and indulgent sexual fantasy. It's becoming very, very, very boring. I've skipped whole chapters at a time just to try to find the plot again.
The tale is getting ragged, the twists are overplayed, and the droning text (frequently mistaken for creative prose), makes caring for the characters and their causes more than a minor struggle. I might read the next book in the series, but only because I stumble across it in the bargain bin.
I expect Eddard Stark to turn up with his head back on! Really I need some conclusion to something that's going on. It's like a paragraph with no sentences. It just goes on and on.
tv show ok , but names and wanderings in a book are tiresome., little other revelations about characters and the like that one expects from a book.
The stories are getting too complex and at the same time trivial. The three books that are actually not a sequence but are all about events to different characters during the same time period is confusing.
I was intending on giving this book as a gift. However, as I opened my package I discovered it is a mini paperback. I'm fine with paperback but the size is embarrassing. I guess you get what you pay for. Not
The writer commits the sin of enlarge the adventure. Maybe too influenced by editors, or, in my opinion, by money. I loved the first adventures of the saga but i am fed up with them. It starts to resemble a soap opera!
Why oh why doesn't George Martin bring the series to a conclusion rather than spinning out more and more meaningless subplots?  A Song of Ice and Fire started out with interesting characters and a compelling storyline--I thought the first 3 books were amazing.  Unfortunately it got stuck and went from fluid to frozen.  Maybe that is why the Stark's motto "Winter is coming" has always been so prominent--the author was warning us that the story would become frozen before it was finished.  I hope the next books bring life back into this originally interesting series. If not they will just add more confusion to a series that has become tedious and boring.
Hopefully, this is not the end of the series. I was less than happy with the ending. The characters were left hanging with no real conclusion.
Jon Snow's decision to feed the wildlings rather than simply burn the bodies of the ones who starve ruins what could have been a promising turnaround in the story.
I waited for a good year for this book to come out.  My reasoning is Martin was named as the Tolkien of our time which is a funny review for his writing.  Which leads me to the other books in his series that we purchased  WALMART.  The other four books we own are normal height for a paper back around six inches.  I had the opportunity to purchase the hard cover for about the same amount that I paid for the paper back from you because I got the faster shipping to have it delivered on the release date as a surprise for my fianc, who has been very upset with the delays in printing for the paperback version.  One on the main reasons we didn't buy the hardcover was that it was expensive but more important to me was the fact that we had all the others in paper back and I did not want one book that was hardcover and bigger than rest.  After purchasing the paperback version from you imagine my surprise at the finding out the paper back version you sold me was the size of a hardcover.  There was no indication of that when I searched for it on your site.  Furthermore I spent close to 30.00 dollars to get the book here as a surprise and fast when I could Have waited one day and bought it at walmart for around 9 dollars and it would have been the same size as all the rest.  I am disappointed with the purchase for those reasons.  delivery and ease of use for your site was good,  the book arrived on time for the schedule you gave.  We are even glad to be able to finally read the book to hopefully bring closure to a series that is hyped way more than it is good.  Alas there are more books to come in the near future so we will have more books to buy. Merritt
This story line of this book goes on and on and has no ending.  All the kingdoms are left in chaos with no end in sight.  Because of this I would not recommend this book or the series to anyone.  It was very disappointing and the fact of the matter is I felt like I wasted my time reading all five books.
Timothy Findley's earlier novel, "Famous Last Words" is a very strange and disturbing book. The question  is whether "Spadework" is a shift into a more traditional kind of storytelling for this Canadian author, or whether it is in fact stranger than anything else he's done. That's what's hard to decide. As opposed to being set in Europe, where Findley always seems finds the smell of rot just below the surface, "Spadework" is set in Canada, in the fresh, bonnie territory of the Stratford Shakespeare Festival. Jane designs props, and her husband Griffin is a promising actor. Findley knows theater well, and the setting is one of the novel's strengths. The art of theater is lovingly explored--the building of props, the use of lighting to create an environment- all the individual elements that make the artistic whole. Ambitious Griffin suddenly leaves Jane and their son for an affair with the theatre's artistic director. Distraught, Jane is drawn to a Bell Canada lineman who disconnects her telephone, interrupting a phone call vital to the plot. Griffin gets the roles he wants for the next theatrical season and returns to Jane. She accepts him back. Does she really think anything will be the same again, or that his return can mend the destruction of their son's world? Why would she want this man back anyway when he has proven that his family is far, far down the list of his priorities? Is this an unbelievable ending, or is "Spadework" Findley's creepiest book of all? It is my appreciation of Findley's earlier work that makes me want to give him the benefit of the doubt. The truth is that unless you put some work into coming up with alternative scenarios, this is a pretty haphazard book. It lacks the kind of quirk Findley excels at, and as a conventional novel of a family in crisis "Spadework" is a flop. It is a readable but mediocre outing by a writer from whom we are accustomed to getting only the best.
Not one of Timothy's strongest books.  There's a lot of material in Spadework with several little stories being carried through.  But I got the sense that some of the more interesting ones were left underdeveloped.  As the book finished, plot lines were wound up too quickly is if to make way for the six o'clock news.  A slight disappointment but an engrossing backstage peak at the theatre scene.
I perhaps shouldn't rate this book, since I stopped reading about 100 pages in.  I was bored!  I may revisit it sometime, but I think the core four books were far superior.
I found the book to be drawn out.  Did not enjoy reading it as much as the first book.  The book looses its intrigue.  Will not be buying the other two books that follow on Dance of Dragons.  Will rather watch the TV series Game of Thrones.
It seems like the author has thrown in the towel and has no clue where the story is going. This book was really a whole lot of nothing going on. Wrap up the story and let the world move on!
Read this to finish the series if it continues I won't be finishing, which is unheard of for me. Story line is hard to follow and characters get stale.
This book was kind of boring. A few good parts, but the worse of all if the song if ice and fire books. In really disappointed. It seems as though a lot of things that wasn't relevant went too much into detail. And most of all, too many main characters dying in these books, it's ok for a few but at some point people don't want to read anymore because they know the disappointment will come! Sad.
Ugh, it's hard to find a fantasy series that I can't finish, but here's a good example.  Bought the whole series, but just couldn't bring myself to pick up the 2nd book.  Two big problems here.  First, you have characters with the ability to "read the future".  Their reading ends up driving the plot, creating a circular logic which makes the whole story feel contrived.  Second, you have an incredibly insufferable main character.  I get that the guy would prefer to be a simple musician, but oh the humanity. Just get on with it already, and lose the angst at the door!  A frustrating read.
I'm only about a third of the way through this book, but am finding it a slog. I am a huge fan of epic fantasy so I expect this type of book to have a somewhat slow start, especially with regards to action. That's not the problem here. The story may be good, but the writing is causing problems for me.  Wurts uses an omniscient veiwpoint, which is OK unto itself. But she often changes POV's multiple times in a few paragraphs with virtually no hints to the reader that she has done so. It makes things confusing and difficult to read.  She also has a tendency to write a lot of purple prose (wordy descriptions) and then randomly slip something important in the middle of a 300 word paragraph that is easily missed because you've been bored to death with the eloquent description of what the root cellar smelled like.  The characters are unsympathetic. What I mean by that is that I just don't care about them. The dark prince is a brooder -- that's OK. But he's overly sensitive, and then goes off and makes incredibly stupid and rash decisions for no apparent reason. It's completely opposite of what you would expect from the character.  The light prince is a sop. He's currently useless and has been pretty much treated as baggage up to this point. He also makes silly decisions for the thinnest of reasons. This is the author's fault for not making a deep character. He's just a archetype with no personality.  There's another female character that might be important, but she just randomly shows up, does some action stuff, and randomly leaves. There's little to no hint what she's doing.  The magic used is not really described, seems to be immensely powerful, and can do just about anything. I suspect she'll spend a lot of effort coming up with random things like kryptonite to keep it from working at times.  The final thing, is relatively minor, but still bugs me. At the start, one kingdom is rich and prosperous. The other is very poor because they have lousy weather or something. So, they do the logical thing and become a kingdom solely support by piracy. It's an absurd concept but this is what is used as the initial conflict in the book. Everything about the dark prince is based this concept so it's a big pill to ignore.  Needless to say I am frustrated with this book so far. I may not bother to finish it.
I found this book avarage.  There were parts that were good but overall it felt more like a YHA type book. Formulaic, and for those who have read more widely it may not be what you want to invest your time into. Eg, the master wizzard who knows all, a special sword, etc. There are other books which take the fantasy concept further.  Cheers
While the book centers around the half-brothers, the Fellowship and the Koriani Circle are also introduced as well in this first novel of the series.  Unfortunately, I was not able to like either of the main characters, Arithon or Lysaer.  While Wurts did a good job revealing their motivations, I just could not connect to either of the characters.  The same holds true for the Fellowship and most of the Circle.  The one exception to this is the character of Elaira-the author does a great job detailing Elaira's upbringing, and how that motivates her throughout the series.  Another issue (which has been touched on by other readers) is that Wurts tends to construct complex sentences as if to show off her vocabulary, which is at the expense of the story.  It's too bad because Wurts has put in a great effort to tell this story, but ultimately I was not able to connect with most of the characters.  I do have the second volume of this series, so I'd like to give this series another shot and see if it improves.
Read all 4 prior to this book. Some sections are extracts from them and the story doesn't move along. Enjoyed reading but was very repetitive. Was really waiting for this and I'm deeply disappointed.
This refers to the paperback edition.  I'm about  halfway thru the book, and I can say that it's taken me a long time to get here.  The setting, historical background, etc., had enormous potential in my mind. The description of the land under the influence of the Mist seems so much like  where I live in Feb-April, when it is always cloudy, rains almost every  day, and everything is gushy and mushy mud, etc.  Imagine if it never  stopped.  Fascinating.  The personalities and interaction of the brothers  also were fascinating to me as well, at least in the beginning.  Unfortunately, the sheer length and run-on nature of sentences, while I can understand them, make reading this  more like studying my technical literature than leisure and enjoyment.  It's like the author has to prove how verbose she is.  Also, many sequences  in the book are difficult to follow, as if this book had to have a prequel  that the reader had to have read prior.  I had this same feeling when I  read the 'Lord if the Rings'  having not read 'The Hobbit.'  Basically you  just felt lost sometimes. For me, it just seems like work to try to follow  this book.  It is definitely not fast-paced.  Thank God for the glossary in  the back with descriptions, or it would be hopeless for me. Also, the map  in the front is scaled down so much most of the writing is illegible.  Thus, even if you had some idea where a location in the book was on the  map, you likely would not be able to read it.  This is one  that is easy for me to put down.
This book is an interesting weave of semi-told plot lines and half-fleshed characters. Don't get me wrong, the book is a good read, and the author obviously has a firm grip on the English language (unlike some others I  have read). Unfortunately, the author must have something to prove. She  uses the thesaurus like a cudgel and relies upon grammatical rules that  even Webster would be hard pressed to justify. What this leaves is a  fascinating tale whose substance is sacrificed for the author's seeming  need to prove her virtuosity with the language. The characters are still  strangers, even at the end of the book. The plot is truncated in odd  places, like a bad hair-cut. There are, however, passages of unique  brilliance and beauty. The author's descriptions (while often lasting well  over a page), create beautiful imagery. It's as if the author originally  wrote this book to be well over 1,000 pages long, and her editor told her  to cut it to 500 by Tuesday. My advice to the reader: this book will  captivate your imagination in odd ways: the world and circumstances are  amazingly rife with possibility, but the characters and plot are a side  note.
This book poses the question of "What would happen if you were reincarnated into progressively more boring lives time and time again?" The characters start as a Mongol Warrior and a slave eunuch plotting to bring down a Chinese Empire. By the end they are two intellectuals in a community college touching knees. Not exactly a thrilling ride.
Others have done a much better job of describing the story line than I could ever do.  I was a huge fan of books 1, 2, and 3.  Book 4 seemed to drag, and now we hit book 5, A Dance with Dragons.  I found this book to be ponderously slow, even tedious.  There was way too much extraneous BS that had to be slogged through.  I don't see the point in mentioning hundreds of names and battles if those aren't mentioned anywhere else in the book...it just seemed like fluff or filler.  It often seemed that Martin was getting paid by the page rather than to produce an excellent book like the first three.  There was "little and less" to like about this book.  I kept getting this image of a school boy, assigned a 1,000 word essay, saying all he really needed to say in 250 words, and then "fluffing it out" to reach the required 1,000 words.  I finished this book, but only because I had so much invested in the first 3.  As another reviewer noted "...its time to tie the loose ends and finish this tale".
Man I disliked this book. I heard him interviewed on Terri Gross' Fresh Air and bought Aurora and this book.  Aurora was captivating and a great read.  Salt is the story of four people as they are involved in, experience great historical events. die, and are reborn again to follow multiple life paths over time in an alternate view of world history.  That sounds great!  As it stands, Salts is a maze of interacting historical, religious, social and cultural ideas that could have been delivered in a more straight-forward manner.  The story finally ends with the forthcoming (not here yet, gotta wait folks) Native American cultural ideal which will transform the world.  Ok, thanks for that.  Mr. Robinson has a great imagination and I look forward to reading more of his books.  This one just disappointed.  Aurora = Amazing Salt = meh
I have not  finished this book.  If you want a direct narrative on an interesting premise, this is not it.  The story is frustrating as it jumps off into metaphysical sessions of discussions between  gods, etc.  And so far it has been about all sorts  of places except Europe after the plague - which was the advertised story.  Not up to his usual standard.  On of the few books I have thrown away.
While I applaud the author's creativity and the provocative discussion of beliefs and religions, I found the book to be too disjointed and too verbose. Having enjoyed greatly the Mars trilogy with its incorporation of sociology, physics, politics, psychology, etc., I was disappointed in this effort.
I love the GoT series but I'm not happy about waiting for the next book. This book went round and round with no real closure. I trudged through it simply to see if I would get some resolution. I did not...
Not sure I'm being fair here. I just read the downloaded sample, which goes for about 3 chapters. It started off well: good writing, potentially compelling plot. But by the 3rd chapter, I just felt he was rambling. Nothing was dramatic was happening. True, many authors take longer to build their world. But I was reminded of the Mars series, the last one was awful. A rambling piece as if he was trying to fill a contract when he had nothing to say. The negative reviews here -- and even some of the positive ones -- confirmed that it didn't really get better.  Which is to say I didn't buy the book. If I do get it someday, I'll come back here and revise.
To many characters, all over the place. It's like Martin had 10 short stories and he's trying like hell to get them into a coherent whole. I personally think he is taking his fans for a couple of extra book rides. Love to see how HBO handles this one!
I really never quite understood what this book was about.  Towards the end, when I realized that I didn't care anymore, I skipped page by page to the back.  A long book for neither enjoyment or enlightenment.
In my review of Book 4, I suspected that George RR Martin's continually branching story of the Starks', Lannisters' and Targarians' misadventures was never going to converge with any finality. In Book 5, he proved that, beyond a shadow of a doubt, he cannot or will not pull any of his narratives together. I can imagine that he gets up every morning, sits down at his keyboard and types away, forever adding details and nuance and character. He has drawn so much praise for his prose and plotting that I suspect that the act of concluding a story fills him with dread, either because he fears he cannot do all the setup justice or he fears that a conclusion to the story will somehow halt the gravy train.  Sadly, this dedicated reader has lost his patience. The books have gone from novel to serial, the book form of soap opera; a never-ending melodrama. What pulled me along through the first 3 books was the desire to see how it would end. What GOT IV and V have taught me is that the chief object of the Game of Thrones is to never finish writing it.
High reviews but seemed hard to read.  Have started and stopped 4 times over the past few months.
Interesting plot idea but the execution was poor. No fluid transition between lives and at times the writing was burdened by excessive adjectives.
First chapter is okay, with a desperate character struggling to survive. Next chapter ramps up the drama by introducing a second character in a similar boat. But then the story starts over again with other characters. I realize this is part of the author's conceit but it doesn't work for me. If this book still appeals to you, and you like experimental fiction, I'd say go for it despite my poor review.
This is a disjointed mess that I had to force myself to finish. Definitely not red mars or even blue mars
Robinson's story is very ambitious and brims with a ton of detail. However, it's incredibly dull. These are a series of linked stories, each involving new characters  (despite the thread of reincarnation ostensibly tying each story together). None of the individual stories is compelling--the characters are mostly bland, nothing in their lives is particularly at stake, and the alternative history aspect is an very minor component. I loved Robinson's Mars trilogy, but was incredibly disappointed in this book.
In the 14th Century CE, the Black Death wiped out roughly 1/3 of the world population -- and up to 60% of all people in Western Europe -- and changed world history. But what might have happened to the world had the Plague been more severe? In The Years of Rice and Salt, Kim Stanley Robinson posits a world in which some 90% or more of the population is dead, Europe is utterly depopulated, and the survivors are concentrated in Eastern Asia.  It's an ingenious and startling premise. Seriously, think about it. Christianity and Judaism, gone as practiced religions, and scarcely even mentioned except as footnotes in a history book. No Shakespeare, no Queen Elizabeth, no daVinci, no Van Gogh, no Mozart, Columbus, Magellan, Rembrandt, Dumas, Jefferson, Franklin, Galileo, Copernicus, Kepler.... the list of never-to-exist Eurocentric artists, authors, explorers, and other world shapers is virtually endless.  Instead, Robinson introduces us to a world gradually explored and settled by Asian peoples. In keeping with a common theme of Eastern religions, he uses the plot device of reincarnation to tell his story. From a primitive village on the steppes of Mongolia to a 100-story highrise in Burma, centuries later, each character returns in the next cycle, to learn more, to grow more, to be reunited with each other time and again, and to gradually learn to recognize each other, at least a little.  It's a fabulous premise. I wish I had liked its execution more.  Robinson's style is bone-dry and stultifying. Even his romance and battle scenes are presented at an objective distance, lacking all blood and passion. I plodded through this book, one sere paragraph after another, and only finished it out of sheer stubbornness, as in: "By God, I've spent three weeks reading this thing, I'll be damned if I give up on it now.") In the end, what kept me going was drawing parallels between the book's characters and our world's key historical figures. ("Okay, this woman would be Marie Curie in our world," and so forth.)  This isn't to say it's badly written. It isn't. It's beautifully written; it had to be to make me stick with it for nearly 700 pages. Deserts are beautiful, too. I'm still awfully glad when I leave the desert and am free to travel somewhere else.
I was intrigued by the concept of The Years of Rice and Salt (700 years ago, the plague kills almost everyone in Europe, so an alternate history ensues), but Robinson, I'm sad to say, squanders the potential. Of the ten books, only one really has really stayed with me, that of The Alchemist. In that tale, Robinson manages to capture the excitement of scientific minds progressing with leaps and bounds. Elsewhere, however, Robinson lectures . . . and lectures . . . and lectures. I welcome books that challenge and engage the reader, but, if I may make the distinction, I don't want to be talked AT. Particularly in the last of the stories, Robinson forgoes telling any kind of story, and just spouts philosophy in a repetitive and, quite frankly, boring manner.  I adored Robinson's Mars trilogy. I felt his love of science and its details greatly aided the story he told about Mars and Martian society. The Years of Rice and Salt, however, gets bogged down in those kinds of details. I give the author credit for ambition - this man is anything but lazy in his effort to create a plausible world - but his attempts to mimic narrative structures of different eras detract from the story rather than add to it. I particularly disliked the book in which sidebars interrupt the text on the page. Also preventing me from losing myself in the writing was Robinson's atrocious use of commas. How these errors got past his editor (it happened in the Mars books, too) is beyond me. It is very distracting to me when sentences get interrupted by unnecessary punctuation for no apparent reason.  Overall, the main thing I'd have to say about The Years of Rice and Salt is that it was too frequently boring. There were flashes of brilliance, numerous interesting ideas, and a great respect for Asian cultures, but the virtues of the novel, for me, do not make up for its failures. To read Robinson at his best, I'd advise seeking out the Mars trilogy before trying The Years of Rice and Salt.
I didn't get the point of this book by 150 pages, so I gave up.  Some may say that's too soon, but if it's not compelling by then, what's the point?  Some friends of mine say they enjoyed it.  It led to discussions on whether the author was trying to say various things about society.  I don't think the author was trying to say any of those things, but if it's a good starting point for conversation, that's a plus, at least.
The first 1/2 of this book was pretty darn good. I really liked the stories that revolved around the discovery of physics, the new world, etc. Unfortunately these were far too short, and as the book dragged on, the chapters seemed to get longer, the discourses on politics and religion got more prevalent, the characters got more one-dimensional.  Frankly, this book comes grinding to and stuttering halt. Such a shame too, great premise and good start. Avoid it.
Disappointing compared to the other four books. The author left characters dangling with no ending and he skipped around too much in the story line
Was not as good as previous volumes ,characters like lord snow , in my opinion should have received More attention as the main figure as he was the person I was totally interested  in And the story seemed to go along aimlessly.
I ordered this book and the series for my son as part of his Birthday gift. He is 15 and an avid reader and wanted to give this series a try. He says it is an excellent Book but how is my son suppose to finish it if several chapters are missing. He is terribly  disappointed. I am out $15 + because I will have to replace it for him. As it takes time getting through a series he just disovered the publishing mistake now. So I can no longer return it. Really upset by this.
I have been watching the series on PBS and thought the books would be fun to read. For me personally they are very dry. I wish I had just bought the first one to try out and not the whole series.
If you're a fan of The Durrell's in Corfu you understand Gerald. This book is what's in his scientific head, which is okay to watch on the screen, but a bit boring to read. Maybe I'll get back to it one day but not now.
I just finished book 5 in the Game of Thrones series. I think starting with book 4 and then continuing with book 5, Mr. Martin lost his focus of the big picture and just started writing little scenarios down. There are a lot of branches coming off the main trunk of the plot with nothing bringing them back together. Hopefully he regained his focus for book 6 which is out next year or I may be done with this series. It's a shame because books 1-3 were fantastic. I love the world and the characters he created, but they are not keeping my attention span anymore, nor his it would seem.
Just boring! Too much nature and not enough story line. Thought it would be wonderful since it was made into a PBS series. Gave up reading it halfway through.
I thought this was a great premise for a book, but the execution was more than a little disappointing. There are just too many ways a civilization can change for anything to seem realistic. Just as the black plague was a historical turning point that ended European influence in this book, couldn't something else have changed the world the writer created into something completely unrecognizable? The world the writer created here seemed too much like the world we know today, with a different accent -- like throwing curry powder on a food to make it "Indian" or chili powder on something else to make it "Mexican."  I did enjoy the earlier chapters, but they seemed more appealing on their own than having to follow the conceit of having them reborn over time. Getting familiar with the world was difficult enough -- to have to relearn who was who in the story was more work than I was prepared for.
As stated by many others, the premise is intriguing, but it fails to deliver what it promises. The opening chapter is gripping, from its goose bump-inducing title of "Awake to Emptiness" to the description of a desolate and plague-ridden land, to the amazing scope of the adventures of its characters.  I found the book enthralling at first, and somewhat interesting all the way through Warp and Weft, at least it seemed to be building toward a world-changing/shaping climax.  Simply consider; no Europeans: a complete and total elimination of the pressures applied to the rest of the world by the authors of the crusades, the inquisition and imperialism.  Yet the world created by the author does not really change. The fact that no change was forthcoming appeared first in the dreadful chapter Widow Kang and continued all the way until the pathetic attempt at closure in The First Years. As I finished the book, I was left scratching my head wondering if the author underwent a life-altering experience or a drastic change in his diet that could account for the complete collapse of such a promising story.  The writing is still strong and I even understand the concept of reincarnation as a vessel of returning the basic characters over the ages as a means of attaining some semblance of cohesiveness; otherwise the book could easily be a collection of short stories set in an alternate world.  However this reincarnation theme is not just a stylistic tool but a recurrent philosophy of the author which further fuels a cyclical plot devoid of historical change.  Simply put, this makes for boring reading.  I will not presume to add to the detailed reviews already here which discuss all the little historical details that the author overlooked, but consider that this is an alternative history novel, and just because we like a particular event or are interested in a group of people does not mean that they must have played an important role in this version of history.  However, it is highly nave to believe that the defining events of world history progress unaltered despite the eradication of an entire continent.  I am just speculating here, but I think the book falters in its later half because the author declines to choose sides in answering a simple question: Would the world be a better place with or without European/Western influences?  This is a loaded question, but the premise of this book demands its answer, instead we are left with a world almost exactly the same as what we have now.  For someone who expected intelligent and imaginative alternative history, this proves to be disappointing.
1000+ page book?  Yes, please! 1000+ page book, that should actually have been a 300 page book?  No, thank you!
The topic of this book is what would the world look like if European civilization never came to be? The author imagines a world where Europe was wiped out in the Black death. But then much of his imagination stops. Finally the world develops in about the same way as it has actually done, but in the Far East instead. You can learn a few facts about the history of Islam and Buddhism, the only merit of the book which is mainly boring and without any plot whatsoever. And the interludes in the "bardo" where the main characteres are reincarnated is a disturbing ingredient which add nothing to the continuity of the story. I think his Mars trilogy was much better.
Two stars tor the format.  This edition is from the MacMillan Collector's Library, "Designed and curated to appeal to book lovers everywhere".  It even features gilt edges and a ribbon marker.  What is unsaid is that the book is 6 inches by 4 inches.  Small enough to fit into a letter sized envelope if this envelope had a couple accordion pleats.  The book is small, the print is even smaller.  It's squint sized.  It's like trying-to-read-the- ingredients-on a-can-of-cat-food size,  Just thought you might want to know if you prefer or need larger print.
Absolutely the most disappointing book of the series. All the story lines are painfully drawn out and conclude with dissatisfying endings, especially Tyrion's and Bran's. There is even one chapter that is 99.5% identical to a chapter in book 4 - why?????  I love (LOVE) the first 3 books of the series. The 4th deals mostly with supporting characters but also introduces a lot of new characters and subplots. Book four wasn't necessarily poorly written but poorly constructed and I know GRRM was trying something different. I look at book 4 like I look at Terminator 3. It looks bad by itself but A DANCE WITH DRAGONS is like Terminator Salvation; so bad it makes the previous book/movie look good in comparison.  Sorry George, I guessed the fans forced you to rush this one out and I haven't given up on you.
After plowing through slightly over 200 pages, I surrendered.  Character after character, generation after generation, there just didn't seem to be much of a point to the meandering commentary.  If an author can't generate more interest than this after 200 pages, he doesn't deserve my attention.
Although I really enjoy KSR's work, The Years of Rice and Salt just didn't do it for me.  It is a brilliant idea, but the follow-through was poor at best.  The world that Robinson creates ends up basically the same as our own world instead of the drastic alternate past/future novel he could have made, it's as though everything is inevitable and merely channeled through different inventors/rulers/politicos.  I guess if that's the message of the novel then it's good, but I was hoping for something with more imagination.
Kim Stanley Robinson's "Years of Rice and Salt," the author's endless alt. historic epic in which the black plague of the 14th century wipes out nearly all of European civilization but leaves everyone else intact, starts off well but eventually wears out its welcome. Told as a series of episodes with reincarnated characters, and with different writing styles for each episodes, the author attempts to re-create medieval and modern history if the so NOT "PC" dead white males were out of the picture. Some of the segments, especially the early ones, intrigue; but after a while you realize that Mr. Robinson's point seems to be that the Alt World develops pretty much in the same way, with the same scientific discoveries happening about the same time they actually did, and pretty much in the same order, as they have in our real one. The discoveries of Newton-era England are, instead, made by an Islamic alchemist in Samarquand, and the Chinese discover the New World (they land in San Francisco Bay), and there's a long war fought in trenches. While highly unlikely, this could be forgivable and redeemable, if Mr. Robinson had simply let the tale develop logically. But no. The author instead is determined to hit us over the head with his naive and sentimental political screeds and his increasingly interminable prose. The book would have been twice as effective at half the length. The author bombards us pretty much the way the Islamic foces bombard mountains in the bizarre and thoroughly (needlessly) confusing trench warfare segment. But for what purpose? Is he trying to warn us that the world could have gone on very nicely without "Western Civilization"? Quite possibly, but there are better ways for an author to make his point than trying to erase his own culture. Is he perhaps trying to erase himself?
I've been meaning to read this book for some time and I wound up with a general opinion of "eh." As alternate history I just have a problem with the premise in that Robinson's plague is just too destructive, even granting that Robinson's thought experiment was to illustrate a world without Western culture. Also, considering that the Islamic and Confucian worlds generally failed to take advantage of Western science before they were mostly defeated, why should I believe they're going to stumble on to sufficent scientific base to make possible the advances we do see in the book? While some people are put off by the plot device of reincarnation in the process of giving a tour de horizon of this world, I really don't mind.  However, I might have prefered this book then being written more as a fantasy, as that would have still allowed Robinson to induldge in his metaphysical speculations.  It might also have been helpful if I could have cared more about the characters, as they seldom rise above being avatars for Robinson's arguements. I also don't mind talking about the nature of history as a topic, but by being a historian and an archivist it's a "been there/got the t-shirt" sort of feeling for me.
Content not what I expected.  Did not finish.
Saw the good reviews.. Had high expectations.  The author took what could have been a great topic, and overlaid it with a metaphysical view on reincarnation.  As a story mechanism, it worked ... OK.. but in the end became over used. The story pacing is Veeeery slow.  Unless you are a speed reader, you will bail on the story. If you like other authors of alternate history (Turtledove, Stirling, Flint, etc..) this book is NOT for you.  Kim's topics are good, but the vignettes read like molasses.
If you like reading a lot of descriptions of spiders, scorpions and of different kinds of insects, then this book is for you!
Tough to hold interest with bug facts.
I liked the humor and discription of background but I have an aversion to bugs and reptiles so was frequently grossed out. I prefer reading about humans.
What a wonderful concept!  Mr. Robinson proposes an alternate history without a Europe.  The Black Death exterminates the Europeans from Constantinople to Scandanavia, leaving Moslem civilization in the West and a swelling China in the East.  The new history's sweep is seen through a series of Buddhist reincarnations of the same family of personalities.  There is always a rebellious "K;" always a sensitive "B;" always a mathematical "I."  Their struggles to shape the earth's history and their own spiritual future guide the overview of the work.  That constant re-involvement of striving personalities negates arguments that an Islamic/Indian/Chinese world only have stagnated.  The book began as a slow, good read, worth taking days with.  What a great idea!  Alas.  By the last two chapters, Mr. Robinson has left writing and taken up preaching.  The enjoyable days of reading dragged into weeks of hoping-to-finish.  Rip off the last quarter of this book, and leave yourself with a positive impression of the author.  Otherwise, prepare for endless beatings on your intellect of the Theories of History. Prepare for sermon text instead of action.  Prepare to defend against being browbeaten into the successful inevitability of Buddhist/feminist/socialist class struggle.  Prepare to watch the author virtually abandon his migrating-consciousnesses concept and begin preaching a kind of humanist reincarnation in a plot-free environment.  Prepare to be bored.  Who let this happen?  Who let a good book go bad?  The fault obviously lies primarily with the author.  Still, isn't there at least one editor out there who isn't an MBA, who can still offend a cash-cow author by telling them to rewrite those awful last chapters?  Evidently not.  This book is too small for a door-stop or a decent fish habitat at the bottom of the lake. Otherwise, there's always the used-book trade-in or the fireplace.  Don't waste your time finishing it.
This is a mixed review, because the book was so dualistic in nature I can't think of any other way to approach it. For the first 3/4'ths of the book, Robinson tells an interesting tale of the world if the Black Death had wiped out all of europe's people in the 7th century.  The entire planet gets turned on its head: the chinese discover the americas, the Age of Reason and the Industrial Revolution occur simultaneously, and Christianity becomes nothing more than a historical footnote.  I'm a history buff, and I just ate this stuff up. Even better he finds a wonderful way to recount hundreds of years of history through the eyes of three souls "K", "B" and "I" who die, are reborn into the world, and then give us a glimpse of the next generation. This is a creative and gripping way to show us history filtered through three attitudes: revolutionary, protector, and intellectual.  And for 500 pages Robinson delivers a wonderful story. And then on page 506 ("Nsara"), the Black Death visits the book itself.  The book's dialog comes to a grinding halt.  Social change skitters and stops.  News of the world just sort of peters out into nothingness.  The author stops telling a story through the characters and plot.  Instead we're informed that stuff happened, and here's how the characters feel about it. To use the book's description, we're treated to 158 pages of coffe-shop talk.  I can't tell you what a disappointment the last two chapters were.  A storyline certainly unfolds, but it drowns in pages and pages of social commentary.  The author seems to have saved his entire life's worth of preaching on the futility of religion, horrors of war, and the evils of racism for this lengthy diatribe.  Any editor worth a tinker's damn would have told him to make his point in the story (which he did fantastically throughout the book) and save the dense, unrelenting commentary for his memoirs or the Op-Ed page. I'm upset because I spot-read the book in a bookstore to make sure that I'd be getting my money's worth.  Of course, I carefully avoided the ending to not spoil the story.  I needn't worry, the author did a fine job of that himself.
First, it's more of an outline for a series of novels (with interpolated scenes) than an actual _novel_.  The scenes are often very good, but they're isolated. Second, while nobody can actually say how an alternate history would turn out, and while granting the turbo-Black-Death McGuffin, the plausibility factor is low. The Scientific and Industrial revolutions were extremely low-probability accidents; they've each happened exactly once in human history -- with a near-miss among the ancient Greeks. This is, as the saying goes, "no accident".  They required a whole confluence of extremely unlikely historical accidents, in areas ranging from theology (the victory of Aquinina theology) to politics (the lack of a unifying Imperial state in Europe)and on to economics -- the triumph of early capitalism in Western culture. Absent the West, it's extremely unlikely that "science" would have ever advanced beyond the quasi-Aristotelian level reached by medieval Islam.  And while some technologies would still have spread -- gunpowder, paper, the compas -- it's also vanishingly unlikely that anything like an Industrial Revolution would have occurred between the 14th century and now. In other words, the ox-drawn plow would still be civilized humanity's most characteristic technology, half of all infants would die before age 5, and they'd still be cutting out hearts down Mexico way.
Too long and I didn't read many of the chapters. Who is this new person and why do I care about him/her?  This book was a long slog to nowhere with plenty of time for naps along the way.  Similar to previous books, the author seems to get bored with an interesting character and all of a sudden - off with their head! Stab them in the gut! Toss them overboard!  Save yourself the tedium of reading 959 pages by reading the Wiki synopsis. You're welcome.
Im sorry but this particular title does not make the cut.  It's characterization is not very good, and after reading 70-odd pages I was bored.
I expected a lot more from this book than I received. The premise that sounds so intriguing falls flat for several reasons. The first is that to truly appreciate alternate histories the reader needs to be familiar with history. The basis of this book is steeped in Eastern history and even more so in religion and philosophy. Without a proper background the reader easily becomes lost. Second is that the book is actually broken into many smaller sections which do not necessarily flow together. The main characters are two people one a spiritual journey who are reincarnated many times. Keeping track of who they are in the various stories and settings is difficult to say the least. There are also the intermissions that take place between the stories while the charactors visit a thoroughly confusing afterlife. There they are judged and often cause havoc against what are supposed to be gods. The lack of decent maps and a detailed historical timeline further the confusion. The maps, few that there are, do not help much as they are too crudely rendered and lack important sites. The book and it's premise have so much potential but they are wasted. Maybe in the hands of an experienced alternate historian such as Turtledove they would be played to their fullest potential. I struggled to finish the book and gave serious thought to quitting. Only by the barest of margins was I able to continue.
Originally GRRM meant to skip both A Feast for Crows and A Dance With Dragons.  He wanted about a few year time jump between A Storm of Swords and what would have been the fourth book, and this fourth book would have flashbacks to the events that took place in between.  At the end of the day, it became a difficult mess, and GRRM decided to scratch this idea and instead write the events that would have needed flashbacks...and a lot of cushion since not enough actually happened to warrant one book let alone two originally.  This book feels drawn out.  I knew this was possibly the case going in since I already knew the above information and previously read a Feast for Crows.  Personally, A Feast For Crows is better.  The problem this book suffers from in addition to the tedium of the previous book, is finally getting some of the main characters on screen and not liking them so much.  Without giving away spoilers: Tyrion appears cruel and sometimes his storyline borders on the side of the ridiculous, though he still has great and memorable lines; while Dany becomes incompentant and shown lacking in Westeros culture and history, and no real desire to remedy this situation.  Arya's storyline was still good, still dark, and interesting.  Jon Snow's storyline while it drags on at the beginning, finally feels like it may end up in an interesting position by the end of the book.  The Reek POV is too disturbing for me to read, but for those that can actually get through it without wanting to scrub your brain, it is probably GRRM best writing in the entire book and a thing of brillance.  Those that have weak stomaches however, would be much better skipping it all together and looking up what happens (honestly not that much that wasn't told by previous POVs or guessed at, it's more about the shaping of the POV).  All in all, if this was the first book I read in ASOIAF, it would be my last.  However, I stuck with it since there are two more books in the series to come out, and they will probably be back in the vein of the previous books, since they aren't really created to fill in gaps of time.  So I do in fact recommend this book, because I am sure the rest of the series will be quite a ride, and only time will tell if your favorites actually make it out of the series alive if battered.
This copy was a misprint.  The book had 30 pages that were missing and 30 pages that were printed twice.
Having read reviews of this text being so funny, it tempted me to read it.  However I didn't find it funny.  What I found was mostly descriptions of finding and the  capture of various creatures, using over the top numbers of words of description.  The author treats the family as secondary to the capturing of creatures, however, to me, is the most Interesting.  The characters were very lively.  I had initially thought I would read all three books, but definitely won't now.  If you are a creature collector, you'll really like the book.  ures
There were certainly moments of great humor but this is more of a memoir......there is no plot.
Disappointed.  I purchased this book because of my enjoyment of the TV series.  I knew of Gerald Durrell from books that I had read decades ago, which I had found interesting.  Those books were concerned with quests for animals in distant countries.  I expected this book to be more about the life of his very interesting family in Corfu, which it was to a certain extent but I found the amount of text describing plants, insects and small animals too slow and all-consuming for me.  The book is well-written and I am sure will provide readers interested in the flora and fauna of Corfu with much interesting information.  I admit to giving up on the book, speed reading the second half only to check that I hadn't missed much.  I reiterate that I had made a mistake in anticipating the type of content and I am sure that the book will provide enjoyment for many readers with different expectations.
The book was boring and lengthy.  I had hoped it would meet the expectations I had from reading the first 3 books. The 4th book was a tough read, too.  I think we all are looking for a conclusion to the story.
I was forced to put the book down halfway through and skim Amazon reviews in hopes of motivating myself to finish it. As I suspected, the majority of fans are just as upset as I was with the lack of progression, abundance of pointless chapters/characters, and GRRM's obvious and painful decline (for whatever reason). I understand an author's need to establish a set-up for the final two books of an epic series, but this has become unbearable. Reading this book became a chore for me, something I would have never imagined. At this point, the Winds of Winter will have to be better than his first three books combined if GRRM plans on redeeming himself and saving this story. Unfortunately, this seems highly unlikely. I'll stick to the HBO series and hope they deviate entirely from AFFC and ADWD (or risk being cancelled altogether; seriously, this is how slow and frustrating these books have become!). It's a shame that George has struggled tremendously in finishing up this wonderful story of his.  With all that being said, I sincerely hope he proves us all wrong.
I "wolfed down" the first three books. The 4th and 5th are boring me. It is all too clear that the writer is adding water to the soup, to keep his creature alive forever.
A sneak peak at the next book in the critically acclaimed series of A Song of Ice and Fire...  Chapter 1 - Jeor Mormont's Raven "SNOW, SNOW, SNOW!!!  CORN...CORN...DEAD...DEAD...DEAD!!!"  Chapter 13 - Hodor "Hodor".  Don't laugh...the way the last two books have gone, it could happen.
I love the 1st couple of books in the series, but had to force myself to trudge through this one. Is he getting paid by the word? I wish I had Cliffnotes...
If I felt ripped off by his last book George Martin has outdone himself this time. To say it's wordy dosen't cover it. Page after page of who ate what and what they were wearing gets a little old after awhile. There is not much of a story to follow as everthing is so fragmented. If you are looking for some resolution to this never ending saga don't expect to find it here. A total waste of time and money.
Each book in this series progressively becomes less focused and more chaotic. Conclusions to any of the hundreds of plots is not forthcoming. Unless you enjoy being strung along just so you'll purchase the next book, don't waste you time with this. Rose
I bought a new paperback and am very disappointed by the quality of the product. While the story is really good, I just wish the book was better made. Seriously, a used copy would have been much better!
The book was in great condition.  Better than the vendor described.  As for reading the book...didn't like it so much.  Oh well good thing I got it for a good deal.  : ' )
Writing just to write. Adding characters for the reason of writing a long book that just seems to go nowhere, blinded by glory for a false circle with no end.
I like this series, though I agree with previous comments that the plot of this book is watery and lame. It feels a lot like a filler episode. My absolutely biggest grief with this particular format is the narration of the audiobook. I have read the previous books in paperback format, but wanted this one as an audiobook. The Narrator, though probably good at his job, manages to portray most characters in a way that make them sound like really old ladies. Bran is particularly disturbing. I would prefer to listen to this book with a different narrator.
The book was too long and the story line disjointed. Too much time was spent in describing things in such minute detail.
I got this book and it's huge!! As in height and width, not depth. It's very hard to hold and carry with you on the train or bus.  I returned it because I found it in paperback somewhere else.
The story itself has simply flown out of control. Martin has lost his ability to move the reader through the story. There are POV chapters which seem to be present simply for the sake of being there. Martin clearly needs an editor with the ability to tell him when he is going off on too many rabbit trails.  Roy Dotrice's narration is mostly fairly terrible. When he voices almost any female character they sound like the leprechaun from old Lucky Charms commercials. Most of the character accents sound rough and bumpkinish; it's almost as if Dotrice is only capable of doing a very few voices and he's forced to stretch his limited ability over Martin's (far) too many characters.
This was the most disappointing instalment yet. I have this fear that Mr Martin is running out of steam on this series and that the TV series is becoming far larger than it should to add pressure.
This rating reflects my disappointment at the lack of resolution by the author. Too much filler; the plot moved much too slowly; too many non-essential characters that confused rather than clarified the direction of the plot. What direction? Obviously there will have to be a Book Six!
I started reading the ASOIAF books last year, so at least in my case, the disappointment I felt while reading this book had nothing to do with being frustrated because the book took a long time to be published. It's just that this book is bad: (Warning, mild spoilers ahead) despite the length of the book the story barely progresses, we have chapter after chapter filled with characters doing nothing, I struggled to read Dany and Tyrion's chapters (and some of Jon's too) because I felt like it was all for nothing, they do a lot of things that added nothing to the story and they went on for ages. Tyrion didn't need so many chapters traveling from one place to another, we didn't need so many pages dedicated to learn how the NW works, and Dany's arc is pure filler until the last two of three chapters. And the meereenese knot is not resolved yet, we still have a lot of things happening there.  There are good chapters, Theon's arc is very interesting and the chapters focused on Winterfell are great even if the pace is slow, but they are the exception.  To sum it up: a lot of filler, the pace is really slow, you have a lot of build up but no climax and the book is way too long. It should have been edited because half the book is unnecessary fat.
I am slowly losing interest in the these books. The 1st 2 made me a believer but the  last 2 leaves a lot to be desired.  Cathryn coming back, Brin's attack and  Arya's fate all these twist and turns are making a wonderful plot and story line, tedious and  sad and I am on the cusp of breaking up with the book. That makes me sad. Ah well.
I raced through the first three books in a few weeks, loving each and looking forward to the next as Martin kept the tale spinning from high point to high point. I spent a month of on-and-off slogging to get halfway through book four (A Feast for Crows) despite the well-chronicled tedium and conspicuous absence or near absence of several favorite characters. I have given A Dance With Dragons a week of steady reading, and found myself skipping whole sections (including a trip to the near-end out of morbid curiosity), wondering why formerly minor, uninteresting characters were now major, uninteresting characters (I'm talking about you, Ser Kevan) and generally regretting my purchase. Chronology has come unhinged. Page after page details the details that only the most fervent fanboy will appreciate.  I've recently become hooked on the HBO series and admire how deftly the show usually handles the need to consolidate story lines and characters, but the screenwriters have their work cut out for them by they time they reach this book. So for now, I'll leave the text behind, finish Season 3 of the series, wait anxiously for Season 4, and hope that Martin finds his way with the next release.
I have read the series this far, so I am a fan. And only a dedicated fan should read this book. I love Martin's writing, but I have to say that this is by far the worst book he has written. Where were the editors? It's way too long and it fails to advance the story more than a millimeter. You could read the first chapter and the last chapter and skip everything in the middle, because nothing happens! Well, it does, but somehow it all seems very boring and predictable. The copy editing is sloppy with errors in grammar and overuse of the same words and phrases.  This book should have been released as two books. Then the first book would have been released sooner, it would have been shorter and the publisher would make twice a much money. The fans would be happy and the author not so burned out. I hope the next book is shorter, tighter and more eventful.
I was sadly disappointed with this book because it failed to live up to the reviews it received in the British press.  In contrast to his earlier work "About the Boy", this book seems to be written in a rush to satisfy the public's and the publisher's demand for another book with the same formula.  It fails to develop any of the characters in detail - Alfie Budd, his dead wife, his dad, his Tai Chi friend etc.  The attempts to pull on the reader's heartstrings to feel for the characters fail miserably as all of the events are dealt with on a very superficial level, and the emotions of the characters are not explored very deeply. Other things that I found irritating included the fact that although Alfie had been living in HK for a long time, he was still surprised by the "Happy New Year" salutations in February which were greetings for the Chinese New Year.  For Alfie to have lived there for so long, without understanding the most important three days of the year - for some HongKongers the only three days of vacation they have in the entire year - makes me think that the author wrote this in a rush as he thought that the element of surprise was probably the best way to explain it to a culturally illiterate audience.  In addition, although Parson's description of the Scuba equipment and pre-dive preparation is very easy to understand, it seemed so basic that it appeared as though he was writing for low-IQ readers. In short, a really badly thought-out book, with no character development, and a book which I would not recommend to anyone.
Is what this novel turned out to be...too much description, too much meandering dialogue, too little plot development, and George's gratuitous character slaughters.
.  Games have rules.  Epilogue means ending. All good things must come to an end. 3000 more pages of a work of fiction!!  Youve got to be kidding
If the first books were like this one, there would be no tv series.  It appeared as if he had to fulfill a contract with another series book.  Filled with great nothings and to add just additional lines he inserted more sex related items than he had in all the four previous books.  You can see why it took him so long to write the last book,  He did not know how to end the series  so he just left everything hanging.  I read the early reviews and should have taken their reviews and not spend my money.  The author could have done much better.
I hope HBO holds Mr Martin's feet to the fire. He seems to make a habit of leavingus hanging, then waiting 2 to 4 years before releasing another book to continue the story.
I don't believe I waded through all that gore & guts to be left with no resolution. I 'm not sure I'll bother with next one, there aren't that many characters left that I care about!
I thought this was the entire book of Dance With Dragons. The pictures are too small to know that this was only part 1 of 2 parts. I thought that 'Dreams and Dust was a sub-title. I feel cheated! I had to go back and buy the WHOLE book, so all I got out of this book was time. I got to read half of the book. Now, I have had to buy another book to get the rest of it. Feel like I was misinformed. It was in the same section as the complete book (5) It should have been under a separate listing. I don't know who is to blame, the seller or Amazon. Waste of my money!.
As i read the book, i realized that Mr Hibbert was not going to give me a very good account of the Queen. He constantly talks about the Queen's changing moods, her dislikes for some of her prime ministers and her treatment of her servants. To me this things are a waste of time. Mr Hibbert fails to tells us how the Queen felt about the political situation of Europe in her time. The author very rarely mentions her views on the different wars England waged during her time. At times i felt like i was reading a gossip column on a supermarket tabloid. Mr Hibbert wastes too many chapters on things like her servants, dinner parties and the sort. The book is too tight since most of the times it covers the Queen's opinion of non-important things.
The wittiest writing I've read these past two weeks was your review! At this point the story is so fractured and disjointed, I wonder if Martin knows where it's going. Even Dickens's volumeous stories continued to connect his characters, subplots and cliffhangers with one end in mind. Hope the series redeems itself!
i was ticked when the 4th book didn't finish the series, as promised.  I became truly pissed after I read ADWD and found an amazing lack of progress in the story.  After coming to Amazon to check on progress, hoping against despair that the series might conclude, I find that a total of 12 books are expected. I'm finished with GRRM, who cannot keep his promises.
700 pages of blathering,300 pages of decent writing. Everyone you like dies...again...and new ones that are not nearly as interesting are introduced. I literally skipped entire chapters almost. Finish it up please make the last few books great like the first... I don't want to wait 4 years for another mediocre book.
What a shame Too many twists and turns in a random and confusing story Too many characters. Too many McGuffins. Not in the same class as earlier books in the series Have you ever read books where you can't wait to turn the page not because you can't wait to find out what happens next but to get to the end to put you out of your misery. This is one of them.
Seems to be so bloody and depressing. Not a bit of happiness in this thing. This edition went right into deep gothic darkness. Had to put it down.
Many, many twists and turns. Many characters introduced, mostly with any real purpose. This book and the one before could easily have been combined and edited down to be shorter than either individual book.
I finally got through the last book. I've been reading a couple chapters before sleep every night. They've been like mini character portraits. Enjoyable, but most don't seem to have anything do with the other chapters. I feel a little empty, despite the one thousand pages. I've been left hanging--far too many loose ends, and no real climactic finish.  There are already some great two-star reviews here that capture how I feel about this book (and the fourth one.) Disappointed, mostly. I began to notice a lot of repetitive prose ("must needs," "nipples on a breastplate," etc.) and that's a sign to me that the actual story wasn't really holding my interest.  Why doesn't George outline his stories better? He could have ended both Feast for Crows and this book on climactic scenes if he had. And trimmed out the bloat. He badly needs an editor.
I didn't believe the ending. I actually went to a bookstore to check a paper choppy. I thought my Kindle missed part of it. I was so disappointed. I didn't need a happily ever after, but I did expect better for a series I spent so much time on.
When you think the author has finally exhausted his list of even the most peripheral characters, he mentions a hundred more. This series grabbed my attention with books one and two; however, I regret having spent the time and money on books three, four and five. When books six and seven are available to lend from the library, I will check them out and skim them to finally get some closure, and then be done with this seemingly never ending saga.
This one was heavy on the grisly descriptions of torture, that I finally had to skip over them. These descriptions seemed unnecessary to that degree. The character development was very poor, they seemed one dimensional and uninteresting. The plot was built strictly on violence and little else. The redeeming feature was the surprise ending.
I was a big fan of the previous books but this is just a tedious, boring read. I found myself wishing for it to be over. Fans waited six years for this?
In reading Earth: An Intimate History, I gained much respect for the breadth of Richard Fortey's knowledge and his ability to connect disparate ideas together.  It would be an enjoyable read for someone with a good understanding of plate tectonics who wanted a few interesting case studies to explore.  However, for the general reader who is seeking a better understanding of the mechanisms and effects of plate tectonics, I advise looking elsewhere.  The book meanders, both in its general structure and within each chapter.  Returning to it, I wouldn't know which chapter to look at for particular topics.  Within each chapter, paragraphs on how plate tectonics actually works are interspersed within a travel narrative that I could have done without and bits of geological curiosity that are not really well connected to the general theme of the book.  These problems not only made the book less informative, it made it harder to read -- I never knew what was coming next or whether it would be a valuable contribution to my understanding of plate tectonics.  There are two aids to the reader that would help make this book more informative and readable:  More diagrams (in place of marginally helpful photographs), and more focused prose (with consistent use of topic sentences).  Absent these, I would recommend a pair of books that are much more successful at combining great prose with tons of information:  John McPhee's "Basin and Range" and "Assembling California."
Score 4 for plot and writing, score 1 for grizzly. Found quickly sucked into characters Carol and Tony Hill and unfolding story, but torture methods  and murders far too grizzly for me
Argh - hoping to find a good survey of the geologic processes behind the Earth we know today but written for a non-geologist, I found his writing unfocused, tortured and pedantic -especially for someone who claimed to be targeting the geological neophyte.  Just ghastly and dry.  I suspect Mr Fortey's editor was handing out bonuses for using words that only 1 in 3 Phds had any chance of recognizing.  Mr Fortey must have picked up enough money on this incentive for a nice gourmet dinner.  This is an easy book to set aside. Just pick up a college geology text book and you will be better off!
While I enjoy geology, it is not my profession. I am interested in expanding my knowledge but have no intention of becoming a geologist. I found this book so boring that I was unable to finish it. It reads very much like a textbook. It certianly contains a great deal of information, but it is related in such a dull fashion that it simply could not keep my interest. I was expecting something more along the lines of John McPhee who writes in an informative but entertaining manner.  This fits the first bill but not the second.
It would have been better if Tony's manly "problem" did not interfere with an otherwise all right plot.  I was not fond of his character, his obsession wore me out. So did the gratuitous violence. The ending, although surprising, did not work. Just not believable. The Wire in the Blood was much better.
I just finished book five....it was an epic read, I mean that I made it through. (There are no plot spoilers here.) I'm a big fan of Tolkien, Lewis, Herbert, even Rowling and I was excited to find another author who wrote the BIG fantasy stories.....but I found that unlike those mentioned, there was no nobleness or goodness in any of the characters - unless they were to be killed off or physically maimed in some horrible way. By the end of the book I really didn't care what happened to any of those who are ...still alive or may be alive or at least are not dead.... the plot was so twisted it was difficult to know. I actually had thought of starting a "family tree" project to keep track of the characters...... but this is only a book and I'm not planning on spending any more time with them or on future offerings. I am sorry this was not the next BIG fantasy writer I have been looking for.....guess I'll go back to the above mentioned authors and enjoy a read that makes me appreciate the goodness of their humanity.
Having read the first four books - and finding the fourth lacking - I nevertheless decided to read A Dance With  Dragons.  It's pretty clear that Martin has become bored and hasn't figured out how to bring all of the story lines to a fitting conclusion. So, he content to keep writing about this knight or that knight.  Interesting characters are less so now and new, boring ones are created. I encourage everyone to read the first three books in the series, yes! But know that if you keep reading beyond three, you'll be disappointed.
I really loved the series and was looking forward to the resolution of a lot things. No resolution. Also an epilogue that made me think the writer is saying, "I'm done with this one."
Too many plots to be handled in one book and must he always kill a key character to end a book in suspense?  Not sure this story will ever end.
Wish I had waited until I could check it out of the library. Pointless meanness to characters I had come to admire.
Martin left the ending hanging...  too any unknowns.  What happened to Rickon, Bran, Meera, Sansa, Caitlin?  Is Arya remaining in the temple?  Jon was murdered after learning that Stannus was defeated, but there was nothing in the story that described his defeat.
After making it to the end of book 5, I refuse to waste another dollar or minute of my time on this meandering miasma of meaninglessness.  Book 1 was of course a pretty good read. By books 2 and 3, I started reading just one sentence per page in some chapters to get through the endless and excessive descriptions. By books 4 and 5, in many chapters I was reading perhaps one sentence every five or ten pages because the story literally moves that slowly.  I really don't know what GRRM hoped to accomplish with the awful books 4 and 5. As countless other reviewers have pointed out, despite their 1,700 pages of text, pretty much nothing happens except that a character or two that might have been developed in some meaningful way was killed off.  There is so much that could have been done but wasn't. Sansa and Tyrion could actually have learned something from each other, and their marriage might have developed with a little time. Arya was on a roll for the first three books then hit the tar pits of books 4 and 5. And Jon ... what a waste.  My biggest gripe is GRRM's proclivity for doing lengthy character developments, then abruptly killing the character. I found almost as bad his undeviating use of cliffhanger chapter endings. Obviously, it is a pretty standard practice in popular entertainment novels, but he manages to make the trite device excruciatingly painful time after time by waiting five or ten chapters, or even an entire book, to again pick up the story for that character.  In short, GRRM has squandered in countless ways what could have been an exciting three or four books.  Instead, he supersized it, filled it with bloat, and destroyed nearly all forward momentum with hundreds and hundreds of pages of meaningless writing.  So I'm done. I refuse to read any more.
Meh, I was disappointed after the previous books.  Too much like an empty romance novel.
I guess for those who want to write their own ending, this is great. He develops so many characters, and leaves most of them hanging at the end of the book. Not what I'd look for in a book.
As a work of genre fiction, I found The Mermaids Singing an enjoyable read.  As with A Place of Execution (the other book by Ms McDermid that I've read), she holds back a major surprise toward the end.  (Don't worry no spoiler here.)  One can almost imagine her while writing thinking, "ooh this is a good one."  By holding this back, however, she strains some of the credibility that she's built up throughout the story.  While this type of thing is common in this genre, it leaves the reader with the feeling of having been deceived.  That being said if you like crime/suspense/mystery novels, I think you'll enjoy reading The Mermaids Singing.
The Good:  The Mermaids Singing starts off well and feels like a good read.  The killers narrative works out fine and hooks you early.  Unfortunately as the book progresses it shows its age and in the end fails horribly.  The book is about a psychological profiler and perhaps that alone made it interesting in 1995.  Unfortunately nearly ten years later I needed more.   The Bad: I will put forth no spoilers here but I will say there is little build up to the ending and it is over in a blink of an eye. I felt like Val needed to have the book done by 400 pages and she wrapped it up just before she over shot the mark.  I love how she references Silence of the Lambs more than once and then liberally borrows plot points from it.  Bottom Line:  Read Manhunter and Silence of the Lambs both are way more fun.
This was my first Val McDermid book, and as skilled a writer as McDermid obviously is, I'm not sure I can handle another one!  Serial killers seem to dominate crime fiction today, and TV shows like CSI have made extremely graphic blood and gore fairly commonplace.  Nevertheless, the truly horrifying serial killer in "The Mermaids Singing" (a title I still don't understand) and the frightening graphic descriptions of torture in this book will probably be giving me nightmares for quite some time.  Even the main characters, profiler Dr. Tony Hill, and Detective Inspector Carol Jordan, are depicted as seriously flawed individuals.  While I was rooting them on in their search for the serial killer nicknamed "Handy Andy" (another reference that didn't make any sense to me), I found myself wishing for a "hero" and "heroine" with fewer emotional insecurities.  I guess I like my heroes a little more heroic.  Instead of another Tony Hill - Carol Jordan story, I've decided to try one of McDermid's Kate Brannigan novels.  Hopefully, it will be a bit "lighter" and won't keep me awake at night.
It seems the author grew tired of witty engaging stories for his characters because unlike the last four books this one was as useless as nipples on a breast plate
Too long, Too wordy, and nothing happens. This is the first time in the series where I started skimming pages because of redundant detail that just wasn't necessary. The last two books could have been condensed into one, and it could have been kept to under 800 pages. Before I buy the next book I'm going to skim the chapter titles and see who's perspective they're written in, and that will determine whether or not I read it.
Great start to the final book.  Reminds readers and viewers of what has happened and provides updates in preparation for that extremely intriguing conclusion. I so look forward to that resolution of this series.
After waiting 6 years for this book to come out I was sorely disappointed. Hopefully the author's many distractions (conventions, appearances, tv series, etc.) is not the reason behind the decrease in writing quality. The story never seemed to get off the ground and to me it seemed like a cheap writer's trick to hold the "big payoff" for the end of the book. A trick I would've thought George Martin was above.
Worse than the "Lost" journey in the end. Do enjoy the ride - its all you have - though even the ride become pretty pale and lifeless in this volume. The repetitions and the author's endless joy that "breakfast" comes from "breaking your fast" all starts to wear thin when there is no plot development - just meandering through the admittedly interesting world he has created.
George Martin continues to string along the stories and add characters, little is resolved with the characters I want to know about.
I really wanted to like this book after having loved books 1-3 and forced my way through 4 but sadly I could not. As others have written, nothing really happens in the book. Part of me almost wishes HBO finishes the series out at this point which is really sad to me. I will wait to read some reviews on #6 before I purchase it, whenever that may be.
I love the story series, but I have been listening to the audio books (on my commute) since the books are so long. But listening to the audio books does take away a lot of the enjoyment of the stories because it's harder to keep all the minor charters straight, there are so many. Also the narrator is awful; he makes all the women sound like old crones and a lot of the men as well. I don't understand why they keep using him, and not some who can do a better job with both male and female voices or who a least would be more interesting to listen to like Sean Bean. Because of the narrator I'm rating it lower.
I enjoyed the earlier books quit a bit but, sadly, felt let down by the 4'th and 5'th of this series.  It feels increasingly dark as the stories progress.  Let me explain.  In earlier books the darkness was used as punctuation for the story where the last few books the darkness permeated the entire story with no relief at all.  I also felt that too many characters and story lines were killed in this book with no decent replacement.  Maybe that was the plan so that book 6 doesn't have to become book 6 and 7.
I was hooked by it. I read it all. It is becoming very, very very painful. How many story arches can one endure before becoming totally lost? This is slowly moving for a climax for sure, but is probably 20 or more books from here....  Not worth  the pain ,not enough of a reward at the end.
It's like the author got tired of the whole saga and left everything up in the air; nothing was resolved at the end. He kills off some and the others? who knows, because he obviously didn't either.
Buying in large print means it is intended for someone with vision difficulties.  This booklet can hardly be considered large print.  Too bad, it could have been such a nice surprise.
Its kinda like the author has a few ideas that he has to spread further and further apart as he realizes he doesn't know where the end zone is, so you start getting detailed descriptions of what people are wearing and elephants scratching their butts etc....there are still some good things going on and I still enjoy it, mainly,,,, but I've started jumping paragraphs of nonsense about clothes and ancient people's stories that have little to no relevance to the story....in my field (music), in order to start a recording, you should have some idea of where you want to end up....even if you wander, it gives you some plan, I think he's lost his plan.  UPDATE  4/30/13 I've finished the book, and I feel that I was sold Kung Pao that turned out to be plain white rice, not interesting, nutritional, or imaginative. His publishers must have leaned on him to push this out because of the series, he must have known he had nothing to add to this.  NOTHING HAPPENS!! My above review was kind in retrospect, I couldn't have imagined that literally NOTHING happens....I got surprised exactly once, and everyone that reads this review knows what I mean, because that jolt is the inky thing you probably remember about this book.  I'm off this writer, shame for bowing to the corporate dogs, they probably leaned on him because of the show, but quality knows quality and it should know that you're either feeling it or you're not, and when you don't, then don't compromise. Remember that without YOU making the decision to edit yourself as to whether or not to put pen to paper, they have NO BUSINESS!! None!!!  I'm pissed.
The book i received is missing pages from 131-146 are all gone which accounts for all Rules that cover 13 anything I need rule 13.5 to which gives guidance on year to cite when the Congressional record is different
Great book of poetry, poor formatting in this edition.
I disliked everything.  I read a translation in high school that was poetic.  Lines would come to me for years afterward.  This is so far from that translation it is awful. No I Don't know who did that translation and I feel sorry for anyone who has this version fostered on them.
I looked forward to reading this fifth edition for some closure concerning many of the characters.  Martin had so many characters, that apparently were killed off then all of a sudden they reappear like he forgot they were dead.  Brienne and Catelyn  are two examples.  The story line did not always follow an order as it went from character to character.  I sometimes had the feeling that the author had forgotten his story .  Perhaps the book was too long and he got bored with it.  Over all I finished it and still felt it was the did not have proper ending.
The book that arrived had a defect that made it unusable
Confusing translation
I read the first four books at rapid speed as I was enthralled by the story. The writing is very good and satisfying to those who like well constructed prose. Then I began "Dance" and started to get annoyed. The story  does not move forward. It gets stuck and becomes disjointed as Martin jumps from one character scenario to another. I felt as if the author was not sure where he wanted to take the story and got lost in giving us deeper details about the characters. Also I got personally angry about his killing off all my favorite characters, especially Jon Snow. And leaving Araya at loose ends not to mention what was up with her mother. This book seemed to me to be a stop gap for the author, as if he is treading water while he figures out how to bring the saga back to life. But who can wait so long for Martin to get it together. I for one am moving on.
I absolutely hated the ending of this series.  So many loose ends...too many "what, where who's"...enough of them to think that there will be a #6, but was bad enough to be greatful that there will not be.  I don't mind using my imagination to figure some of it out, but closure is missing.
There is no resolution to this series!!!! I read all 5 and this author does not ever wrap it up!!!He goes on and on and never gives the reader ANY satisfaction. I am furious! This guy has violated every rule of novel writing,but he is successful in getting us Fools to buy 5 of his books. Maybe he has a 6th book but at this point I don't trust him and I'm DONE!!!
This is a really important book to have...but the organization is SO TERRIBLE. It really is organized in the worst way possible. Make sure to buy tabs because you'll need them...it will make your life a lot easier finding things if you tab this book.
The online version is a lot better.
Bought this for my paralegal studies. Hard to understand doesn't break anything down
On the kindle it didn't come out on the expected quatrain format.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this series but as much as I enjoyed reading the other books I hated the ending in this book
Pages and pages of meaningless details and dozens of characters who go nowhere, like book 4. What a shame, after the promise of books 1-3.
The book is what I wanted with the extra benefit of appropriate illustrations. I know the Rubaiyat very well almost by memory. The copy I bought was a gift  to my grandson
This was listed as illustrated which it is not.  It's a text book and would be useful to a scholar of the Rubaiyat's many printings.
I ordered "The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam" shown on Amazon as a large collectable Easton Press Limited Edition 1976 weighing 3.2lbs from Owls Books, and received instead a pocket sized Rubaiyat by Revell Inspirational Classic of 6oz. that has no illustrations with two quantrains per page. This looks to me like a mistake, either intentional or otherwise, in the advertised listing of the product. I am dissappointed in this transaction and have doubts of every dealing with Owl Books again. LONEAGLEBWC
too hard to figure out how to read with the other books. I am a great fan and still had a hard time. Just gave up.
I've never written a review on Amazon but this product made me feel like i needed to for other buyers. Beware, this is not the full version!  I noticed that it did have less pages than others, but thought maybe the type set was different.  Reviews linked to this book are reviews for other full versions of it.  It was only $1.80 so i'm not that upset, just a little disappointed.  When it says 1st and 5th additions, I assumed the publisher incorporated different parts from the first or fifth additions of the full copy. It's more like a cliffs notes.  By definition every time an publishing house re-publishes a book, that becomes the next addition.  This should really be "selections" of the full version.  Granted I didn't pay much, the description for this particular item needs to be different than other versions.
I am getting a little impatient with this series. I want to like it, but really, must every likeable character get the shaft? And I feel that the plot has run away with itself.
Everybody is entitled to translate from another language, but FitzGerald did it as a quasi-translation and wound up with a recognized masterpiece.  If you want to know what Khayyam really said, read this book.  If youn want literature, read the FitzGerald version.
This book is an utter disappointment. Martin has managed to create his least exciting book of the series, despite having the half of the cast who are the most crucial to work with.  I'll avoid spoiling by keeping things general, but relevant. The writing itself has devolved dreadfully, Martin is repeating tropes and sayings of characters so much that he has gone beyond a parody of himself. Dany has become a ridiculous sex crazed nubile woman, his other women have become no different. Such stereotyping of women would make Jordan cringe.  Jon, my favourite character, is now stuck in a malaise ridden plotline, Tyrion fairs no better. You'll be disappointed by the most promising plot lines in the book, which feature Bran and a few others. I won't say how, but you will be cursing Martin's narrative choices.  The Martells and the Greyjoys, dreadfully boring and they feel irrelevant. There'll be a cast of characters introduced whose names you'll struggle to pronounce, let alone remember. All these aspect combine to make the book feel like filler. After reading Feast, which while testing was not bad at all, you're going to be let down by the irrelevance of this book.  I don't think I can bring myself to read the Winds of Winter when it comes out. I think Martin has jumped the shark.
Martin's long winded story telling is getting very old.  He REALLY needs to trim down all the useless descriptions and back stories, getting more to the story line.  I have started skipping whole pages at a time just to get to the story line.  The first couple books flowed well, even though the long descriptions were there too, but at this point, it almost seems like he's dragging this out to sell a couple more books. He is not progressing as a writer, or getting more precise in his telling. I may just wait on the cliff notes for the last 10 books he's going to write in this series.  I'm losing interest.
Leaving out half the story lines makes no sense, and seems like a bad marketing idea.  But nice enough if you want to keep up on half of the main players.
Blah, blah, blah... "Words are wind" the author says repeatedly throughout this tome. Much wind gets blown in this installment. If only he had heeded his own advice. There is so much unnecessary descriptive verbiage in this book it easily could have been 500 pages shorter and thus a better read. I really don't need detailed descriptions of every person's raiment or armor, every room's decor, or every brick's color, shape and condition. A sigil or a name tells me what I need to know, and a descriptive pronoun plus my imagination can work wonders. I really don't care for what George R.R. Martin is doing or has done with his characters or plot, but hey, they are his characters. I thoroughly enjoyed the first four books in this series.
Took longer than anticipated to arrive.  Definately was not new, I would have bought it anyway, but, its just wrong to advertise it as such.
I have read each installment of this series as it has come out.  This is the first one I have refused to finish.  Aside from being unnecessarily verbose, the story is told from no less than a dozen points of view.  There is only enough time to start to get the rhythm of one character's narrative before the text abruptly jumps tracks to another character.  As a result the myriad perspective changes read as nearly frenetic, and the flow of the story is quite disjointed.  This is more a collection of vignettes than a novel.  It almost gives the feeling that Mr. Martin has begun writing specifically for the purpose of an easy conversion to screenplay.
Ugh. I'm so mad I wasted so much time trying to read this book. I bought a paper copy which was so heavy it destroyed 3 different tote bags. Finally I wised up and bought an ebook. I thought I would finally get some answers and some resolutions, or at least the tension would be ramp up a bit, since we're in the second half of the story.  No dice. I feel like this book deliberately avoids all the interesting bits. And if there are any interesting bits, we switch to another story before they fully resolve.  It's a loose conglomeration of underwhelming cliffhangers. The author fails to realize that there is a point of diminishing returns with this style of storytelling.  There are about twice as many possible deaths as there are actual deaths. The entirety of dorne was an utter waste of time, I gave up trying to remember those silly ghiscari names, and  90% of the characters in this book are on their way to meereen, for 900 pages. And none of them accomplish anything.  This book could drop 300 pages easily. Do yourself a favor and just read some summaries and hope that the next book is better. You're not missing anything.
Martin is a fantastic writer. His first two books in the series were actually quite good, compelling me to continue reading.  However both book 4 and book 5 have killed off good characters and introduced poor, unsympathetic characters. Also, the plot does is not appear to be going anywhere. The third one was pretty marginal. This one has finally made me decide to not purchase another. It's almost as if he's trying his best to keep the series going without offering his readers any real substance. Too bad, the series started out so strong and very entertaining.
The first three books were page turners and I enjoyed most of the fourth installment.  Unfortunately, ADWD is somewhat of a bore.  The details and numerous characters are fine, but the story is told from too many perspectives which waters down the storytelling.  Early in the series, the original characters were so well-crafted, so real that they really became alive and got under my skin.  By this fifth book, it seems more like an accounting of everything rather than a story.  Nothing really happens.  I can honestly say, it wouldn't have taken away much to simply read a synopsis and skip this book altogether.  Martin needs to consider how frustrating this is to those who've read and enjoyed the first books since who else would buy the fifth?
I am a very long time fan of Mr. Martin.  I still hold up the first 3 books of this series as the greatest fiction I have ever read.  Perhaps that is why the last 2 books have hurt so much.  The first three books were gripping, fun, suspenseful, shocking, inspiring and on and on.  This book just has none of that.  It has taken characters we have grown to love and watered them down and made them very dull and, in some cases, very dumb.  By the end of the book it seems the characters and the story is almost no further ahead than at the end of book 3.  Will I read the next book?  Yeah...probably...if for no other reason than I still have hopes that Mr. Martin can resurrect the drama of the first three.
The George RR Martin "Song of Ice and Fire" novels have gone straight downhill with the last two novels, "A Feast for Crows" and "A Dance with Dragons". The first 3 books in the series are outstanding, but the previously mentioned 2 books are EXTREMELY slow. Those books should have been aggressively edited...they are long and for the most part very dull. I'm not sure I'm even going to buy the next in the series, if it ever comes out.
Too complicated because of jumping too quickly between chapters and using so many different names. Found I am concentrating too much on trying to follow the people and remember the names to follow the story.
Fantasy has always been defined by the quality of "epicness" which turns off most mainstream audiences, but inspires fanatical obsession with a dedicated minority.  The first 2-3 books of the GOT series were rightfully heralded as genuine crossovers because they managed to strike the right balance between the mainstream and the dedicated minority.  However, the last two efforts by Martin have seen the epic universe increasingly used as a crutch to mask what has become a pretty tedious and muddled plot line centered around, well, plotting and the now way overdone theme of moral grey areas.  Of course, the various plots, sub plots, and sub sub plots of families vying for power and the moral ambiguity it creates is the stuff that made GOT what it is.  However, what made it most interesting was the underlying sense of tension that we weren't just watching plotting for the sake of plotting. Instead, we were getting to know characters and the very rich backdrop of the world they were living in for the purposes of making it that much better when it actually...went somewhere.  Instead, A Dance With Dragons, much like a Feast For Crows before it, continues plodding along with the theme of a party of characters on one long, harrowing[epic] journey after another stumbling upon a new castle/ruin/city where a series of plots, conspiracies, and sex ensues.  Rinse and repeat.  Except, yes, for this go-round we are reunited with some beloved characters absent in FFF. Unfortunately, it's hard to care about them once you catch up, as they too fall into this same pattern.  The interest in the last 2 books really is being able to open up a new part of the map, so to speak.  You will, of course, get to spend a lot of time in unexplored parts of the GOT universe in DWD. There are new/under-explored families, histories, etc. abound.  But, the appeal for this is limited for most.  That said, as a fan of the series and being a bit of a completionist, I read it, albeit struggling at times.  On the plus side, there's some potential for interesting story-lines later, for me at least.  You get the sense that eventually, Arya's story could really go somewhere cool, if Martin doesn't get too caught up in the whole "tragic/dark twist" trope and say chops off her leg, thus not allowing her to be a heroine "V" that she so desperately needs to be.  And, oh yeah, the whites and winter are supposedly coming, but you sort of forget that by now.  Another plus is that the TV series will have to be more plot-focused, making me look forward to the series that much more.  This is one TV series where I'm actually looking forward to what they cut from some of the books.
I sailed through the first three books, hungrily absorbing the characters and unusual story lines.  When I got to book four I was frustrated.  The characters I knew and love were gone and the remnants got very little done.  I was introduced to new characters I had a hard time finding interesting.  Nevertheless, I finished the book with hopes that book five would be right back on track.  Well, it has been months and I have yet to finish the book.  Whenever I get a few moments I try to finish reading the books but find myself doing something else.  I am going to make a real effort to finish this book and when I do I may add to this review but until then... assume that I haven't.
Unfortunately the book introduces so many new characters and sub-plots that it is hard to follow and seems rambling. I found myself having a hard time staying interested in this volume compaired to the previous books.
The other books were great. This one seemed to drag on and was almost a chore to finish. I think the author ran out of story. The ending was flat. I easily buzzed through 1 through 4.
Why did this series have to turn into such a let down and drag? It was seriously "out of this world" good when I was introduced to it over 10 years ago. I have no idea how I actually finished reading A Feast for Crows, don't remember nor want to remember any of it, and absolutely will not re-read it. The feeling was as bad as shoving classics down a high-schooler's throat many of us can quickly relate to. I remember telling myself surely this is just pain we all have to endure to get to his next great book, hey no problem I can live with that. Then my hope was lost again in this "dizzy" dance with dragons. Since when did this series need a bunch of filler and fluff, that goes off into unnecessary tangents while at the same time slowing down the progress of the important plots, to simply advance the foundation of a great story? Why Why Why, when so many people were captivated by such a rock solid fantasy world that was imaginative yet seemed so real with believable plots and schemes. It was hands down the best series I read and owned, definitely the cream of the crop in my collection, even boasted to friends about it. Now the only way I could keep my eyes open were short spurts of excitement of limited sections following Jon's developments and Stannis' actions, can't remember much else because it hurts to try and even care to. Between both books, following Bran, Arya, Jaime and Tyrion among others have lost their luster, because their developments and lack of progress equate to simply uneventful. I never thought I'd have to take a timeout from a series that used to be so solid, to the point of a "good riddance" feeling to finish these last 2 installments. And after spending so long toting it around and muttling thru I'm afraid I've lost my excitement to watch season 3 of GOT nor read anymore of this series until it's actually wrapped up.  If this keeps up we're looking at a turn for the worse like Jordan and I'm concerned Martin won't live to finish the work himself either if he continues down this path. But Fortunately that can be avoided if he reads these reviews and complaints from his fan base we can only hope, to respark fantasy storytelling in its finest form again. I'm definitely not getting roped into buying multiple mediocre, senseless, filler material upon their release dates if this continues. Nor am I giving up on this series entirely, but I am disappointed into what has become of it, and like others really hope it turns around. Sorry if I spoiled any moods here, fix this Martin!
The book is overly long with too many characters which makes it hard to follow. The interesting parts relate to the combat in the war zones. I could not read the whole book. It truly resembles a modern WAR & Peace
The richness of the characters and the strength of the storytelling is Martin's forte, but this book felt like stalling. Action was sluggish, and descriptions of the land and travel have become repetitive to the point of tedium. New characters are brought in, which may be necessary for a series of this length, but they lack the dimension and depth of the central characters. I hope that Martin find the pace and vitality that was so compelling in other books.
I'm a fairly avid reader and there are only 12 books in my life I didn't finish. Life and Fate was one of them. I rarely write reviews and I only write this so I might save others from investing their time in reading this tome.  I was quite excited to acquire and read the book, especially with reviews that stated "best book ever written" or something like that. The book wasn't poorly written, it was just awfully boring - and I have a high tolerance for slow moving books. The characters were somewhat hollow and not developed. I couldn't connect with any character. I got about 60% complete and finally said "that's enough, I'm done..."
This story goes on and on and on just for the sake of going on and on. It moves far too slow. I was excited when I started reading these books, but I will not pick up the next one. I'm done.
So bad and convoluted that I can't even remember the real plot.  You blow George but I'm sure I'll read the next one.  Jerk.
Winter is coming? Really? That's what this (seemingly endless) cast of characters have been promising since the first book. I am half way through the fifth book and starting to have my doubts. Is it autumn yet?  Just for the record I loved the first 3 books in this series which are, in my humble opinion the best fantasy trilogy since "Lord of the Rings". I therefore cannot explain what happened to the story line which apparently goes missing somewhere around book 4. Perhaps George Martin slipped in the shower and suffered a concussion shortly after completing "A Storm Of Swords"?  I lost interest in "A Feast For Crows" about 1/2 way through and left it on a park bench. More like "Feast For Pigeons" if you ask me. Nevertheless I went out and purchased this turkey on faith.  Wake me when it's over. Zzzzzzzzzzzz....  Before buying this book I highly recommend reading the Amazon customer review entitled "Twentyfour Characters in Search of a Story". It will tell you everything you need to know about this book thus saving you money, time and aggravation.  "A Dance with Dragons" should come with a free bag of smelling salts attached to the inside dust jacket.
Self indulgent,he needs an editor. I have read them all but the pace has slowed, if I have to read jape or kniickered again ill scream
I realize that these books are supposed to be about the "land" versus individual characters. But come on. Stop killing people for the sake of killing people. If I hadn't committed so much time the books already then I wouldn't bother with the next one.  Shock value for shock value is really absurd.  Plus have a little more closure in between books.
It was a good story idea - don't know what happened.  Maybe author was trying to milk as much revenue as possible?  Don't know.  The whole first 5 books could have been 2 and I won't bother with the next when it comes out.
A number of other reviews point out what's great about this series of books is the author's willingness to have important characters die. Death in the world constructed by Martin is often random, cruel and always frequent. It helps make the world feel all the more solid. I like this side of the books.  What I didn't enjoy is the complete lack of any 'end' to the story. After about third book I started wondering what the point was. I'm slow so it wasn't till I finished the last one that I worked out the open endedness is about being able write another book. It became clear to me this was all about selling books. In the end it just feels too cynical to be enjoyable.
I have for a long time been invested in the ASOIAF series by GRRM. I starting reading the series shortly after the publication of ASOS and I re-read all the books again in preparation for the publication of ADWD, having pre-ordered the book on Amazon.  Reading the previous books so closely before reading ADWD, has just highlighted to me the drop in quality through the latter two books. There are some chapters in ADWD that held my interest but for the most part the story just drags and after about 600 pages I put down the book. I have since tried several times to return to the story, but each time the lack of any real plot development has caused me to put it aside and pick up something more interesting to read.  As one of the many fans that eagerly awaited ADWD, I am very disappointed in what GRRM has delivered. I think that the poor quality of ADWD, is in part due to the myriad projects that GRRM is involved with (see his online blog). The ASOIAF books are not his primary interest any more. The proportion of his time allocated to actually writing these books has diminished substantially and hence the length of time between books is increasing on an exponential scale. I expect that the HBO series will have completed filming the events in ADWD long before The Winds of Winter ever gets published. Then it will be for the HBO script writers to try and tie all the lose ends together and salvage the series.
I really enjoyed the beginning of the series, but feel now he's got so many characters that he isn't moving the story forward and a lot of it just dragged for me.  I have to say with as long as he takes to write the series, I don't know if when the 6th book in the series comes out whether I'll pick it up again or not.  It just seems like he gets you interested in a character only to get rid of them in some horrible way and then pick up the story with characters you didn't even like or was interesting enough at the start to continue the story.
The author left many matters unfinished, there are just sad chapters which didn't give me any pleasure for reading the book, at the end.
I think GRRM needs to speed up his writing,  as he seems to be meandering & losing what started as a great plot, even some of his strongest characters are beginning to lag ( those that he has not killed off that is ). If the message he is seeking is that you need to be a  liar, schemer, or self obsessed to survive and win and that all good and noble acts should be punished - he is doing a pretty good job so far.  Not impressed with this last book at all or it's story line, nor the fact that the anticipated release date of book 6 is now out to 2014 or beyond
With >2,000 reviews already published, I will not delve into detail here.  What I will say is I am a big fan of George R.R. Martin; I think he weaves an exciting - if complex - story in all his books. I almost *never* re-read a book, but with the long wait for this final volume in his series, I found I had to re-read the preceding volumes to remember all the plot lines. And I did so with pleasure...he's that good!  But this book...simply disappoints. I cannot help think that GRRM in the end had created so many plot lines and so many loose ends he got to this book and found it impossible to cleanly close out the stories. And as the years passed and frustration mounted, it did not get any easier for him.  Now, I am not so narrow that I expect every line to end in a clean, fairytale (or demontale?) manner. But...as the (in theory) final book, it sure would have been nice to draw at least the major threads to a logical conclusion. MINOR SPOILER: If that's what you are looking for in this book, you will also be disappointed...it's just not very good at wrapping up much of anything. If you want finales...go find another book series to read.  In the places that GRRM did try to tie up loose ends, he seems to have gravitated to either simply killing off the character, leaving you with some other cliffhanger that (most probably) will never be addressed, or - worst of all - simply ignoring them and leaving you wondering. While I do not object to his periodic killing of major characters, in at least two cases in this book their deaths are very sudden, with little set-up and feel practically random. I could hear him saying to himself: "I don't know what to do with this guy...and I can't go further with him...so I'll just kill him". Ugh. I will not spoil the plot with who gets the axe this way, but suffice it to say that one in particular was so sudden and random as to be almost laughable. And I can think of two major, major characters who, in the end, are almost completely ignored in this book...wandering out there in the wilderness...with no plot progression. I was left wondering...why did he include them in 5 volumes of writing, tracking their progress, only to abandon them without a final word?  I almost gave this book 3 stars because of the body of work. But on reflection, I would give the earlier volumes 5 or 4 stars (start with 5 and move down a bit as the series progresses and he clearly starts to run out of steam). But taken as a single volume, I can't give this particular book more than 2 stars. It is beautifully written, but the almost complete lack of effort bring major plot lines to a finale left me...as the title says...disappointed.
George R. R. Martin was once described as the American Tolkien. He was headed that direction until Books 4 and 5, where he turned to Robert Jordan for inspiration. Tolkien knew how to finish an epic and leave millions of adoring fans long after his death. Jordan knows how to draw out a story until his fans dwindle into nothing -- squeezing maximum profit from them for as long as possible. I could sum up the exciting plot developments of this book in a couple of sentences. Instead of plot, this book develops characters until you want to pull your hair out. I know more than I ever wanted to know about them. Save yourself the frustration, read a synopsis, and wait for Martin to write something worth reading -- like he used to.
The remaining lead characters in the series have almost nothing interesting to do plot wise or developmentally in this installment.  On top of that, Martin wastes chapters on a new uninteresting lead that comes to nothing.  Throw in a major engagement that is only briefly mentioned secondhand by another character and you have the absolute worst book of the series.
I've had a difficult time getting through this book.  Unusual for me, given that in general I'd rather read that breathe once I'm into a series.  This book wanders, and one does come away with the impression that it was written because the author HAD to write it, rather than any great passion for the storyline.  I actually put it down a third of the way through and left it for almost 6 months, then started again to see if it moved any faster the second time around. Finished it, but only to see if ANY portion of the plot would actually RESOLVE. If you don't read quickly, from beginning to end, you are likely to get lost in the detail and perpetual subplots.  As well, i am having a more and more difficult time with the graphic torture references; they seem gratuitous and rank, and intensely offensive without much point or plot purpose.  I would not recommend.
There is a good book in here...you need to skip the other parts to find it....hoping that the next book restores the franchise.
Thought I would never get through this book but kept at it expecting some answers only to discover there are 2 more books. I think I'm done.
Well, I don't write many reviews, but since I've dedicated weeks of reading time to this series, I figured I'd let you all know where this newest book has taken us. Let me just put it this way, if you enjoy reading about surcoats, and descriptions of scenery, then this book is for you. This book and the one before it (a feast of crows) have just about bored me to death. I find myself skimming through chapters to find the juicy stuff on a regular basis. It's like the author knows that he can get away with writing 1000 page books with half of it filled with useless wordage, so why not? The story has drawn thin, and I can only hope that the next book or two give us adventure and surprise because that's what makes me happy with a book at the end of the day. Reading about feasts and how long is takes for someone to wipe their a** is old news and not something I wish to continue to read about.
Book 4 and 5 are boring...my thought..read Kate Morris's review.  It is an excellent review. The author seems to let his imagination run wild as the story goes..all the characters are jokes now
Too many personas, too many events, too many quirky sudden changes and revelation, too few plot advances, to meaty cliffhangers...
Mr. Martin does not appear to have trouble writing thousands of pages, but has real trouble closing out a story.  I was very dissapointed with book 5.  The actual ending is abrupt and not really connected with the previous 5000 thousand pages ... oh sure, one can assume a Targaryen will rule.  Many plot lines are left dangling ... characters appear and dissappear ... never really connecting with the conclusion!  Very less than satisfying
Very disappoint for this book GRRM has no  ideal how to make book interesting so he kill every main character. Why do you hate Stark Har GRRM?  Any way in this book you found the character you use to read in the 3 book again but they do nothing just eating  taking walking  It wast of time to read this book.if you have something to do do not buy it. But if you have vast of time or have habit to read someone diary this book is ok
let me just say this book was almost a complete waste of time and if the 6th book doesn't tidy up the story line I will not be reading anymore of his books
I'll just repeat what I just said on book 4.  If you didn't listen and read through that mess, perhaps you will listen now.  Mayhaps his initials aren't initials - you'll be saying GRR all day. No kicking of cats or wrestling with family members will resolve the empty pit you feel inside.  I loved the characters through the first three books. I mean, really loved.  The action, when it occurred, was fantastic in the first three books.  You won't get much of that in this one.  Remember what Tyrion did to the fleet?  Awesome.  Nothing here.  Remember what Danerys did for the slaves? You can keep reading, but it doesn't deliver.  I just today finished this one to my chagrin its just like four - meandering narration from minor POV characters, no resolution on any of them. Every time he added a new character a piece of me died inside.  I held out hope that this book would do it, that this truly epic cavalcade of characters would converge in fantastic conflict and resolution. Instead I'm left with an empty pit and lost hours and dollars.  I won't spoil it - but save yourself 1000 pages of time and just wait for the show. But you didn't listen to me on Book 4 so just know that I understand how you feel once you finish, with bulging eyes and a migraine, this messy dance.  I'm now convinced that GRRM can write characters well but has trouble with narrative. I'll watch the rest, maybe, via Netflix. SO BUMMED - GRRRRRRRRRRRR!  P.S. If GRRM is reading this...I love you man, but if you write 6 and 7 I'll be reading the reviews before I entertain turning the first page.
I was somewhat excited to buy this book as I enjoyed the rest of the series. I must say that my strong feelings were slowly slipping away by the time I began to read this book.  GRRM owes his loyal fans much more than he is giving. If he doesn't produce a better product on the next book in what? The next couple of years maybe longer. I won't buy it.
The companion to book 4, terrible in my opinion.  Too much focus on outside characters and lack of knowledge of the main characters. Also, huge let down in the end. I honestly don't think I'll bother with the rest of the books.
If this is the last book in this saga I'm very dissapointed. After 5 books and no closure? Also I was not impressed by each chapter being almost like a short story with no end. When I started book  one I was surprised to find out that I had to get through 4 more books only to be dumbfounded at the anticlimactic finish.
I loved the series at first but it seems like he really started losing steam with feast. Disapointing to say the least b/c after the first two books i was thinking this was going to be one if my favorites. With that said it is still a worthy read.
I can't wrap my mind around having simutaneous novels going. Having to read one and remember what happened to put it in perspective is difficult when you aren't constantly reading. It is normally half way through the chapter that I vaguely remember something that I read 2-3 months earlier that makes sense out of the passage.
I read all five published books of this series.  The first four books were awesome.  The story lines DROVE me to each new book.  However, I am now looking for a TRUE SIXTH book!  The last book the series left us dangling on virtually every story line . . . as if George R.R. Martin is planning on writing another book to finish it all up.  If he does not write another book - he owes me for all the time that I wasted reading this series.  Imagine going to a movie that just ends with no conclusion.  As if the producer just ran out of money.  Remember your disappointment in the ending of Sopranos?  Try that times 10.  Awesome writing. Awesome character development. With NO resolution.  Until you see a TRUE SIXTH book, I would recommend that you do not waste your time.
Buy nearly any of the other Christie audiobooks created within the past few years rather than spend your money on this one.  It's not nice to be harsh, but I nearly couldn't finish listening to this set, because so few of the stories were compelling enough to even take my mind off the traffic during my commute. Although I like nearly all of Christie's novels, this collection of short stories seems to indicate that Christie really didn't understand short story-writing, or was churning out stories without much heart for it or perhaps much good editing-- at least at the time.  At the end of each story, I sat there feeling cheated--as if the ending had been rushed to fit into a set number of pages. It's more like reading one of those 2-Minute Mysteries than the bit of nice, warm, chewy Agatha Christie brownie of a mystery I was hoping for.  Christie normally excells at creating delightful (either good or bad) characters, whose quirks and social interactions we anticipate and enjoy. Her normally keen sense of social wit is rather lackluster here. These short stories suffer greatly from her inability or lack of time to develop the characters and the social setting within so few pages.  Also, there probably is a following for this character, but I find Harley Quinn stories simply silly, and will never read them again. In a short story format there is simply no scope for a novelist, who isn't trained to have the discipline, to get us to suspend disbelief at the ooh-aah supernatural Mr. Quinn. I enjoy a good fantasy or what have you, but these stories simply fail to build into anything and seem terribly impressed with themselves.  If you'd like to explore Christie's little known "non-star" characters to try something of hers you haven't read, I enjoyed Ordeal by Innocence and Elephants Can Remember (which features "Ms. Oliver", who represents Christie herself).
Whie I LOVED the first three books, by the time I got to this one it was so hard to read I almost didn't finish. He goes into detail after boring detail about non-relevant stuff . . . then all of a sudden mentions something critical thats easy to miss when you're skimming and you have to go back to find out "when did that happen!"
I write this review with all due respect to a very successful author.  That said...  Recently, I read this series, and I've decided to just read spoilers from this point on. That's huge for me as a writer myself, and I'm a bit ashamed to even say it. When I read Game of Thrones I thought the author was just brave, but after reading all the available books I realize that I just don't like his style anymore. It is exhausting. His characterization is amazing and he's sold more books than I have, so he deserves true respect for that, but I read certain types of books for escape, and I felt like Mr. Martin open the dungeon doors, invited me into a grand adventure outside the cell walls, only to loose the hounds and stab me in the belly just as I started to feel free. Then, he did it again and again until I have no desire to trust his promise for freedom.  More than any other books Dance of Dragons has helped me to discovered that my pallet craves books that make me feel either better or fuller at the end. If I want a world of dark I can watch the news.
I'm a big fan of the series, but I've lost a little faith in Martin. If I could use one word to describe this book its disappointing. The pace slows down considerably for this one and frankly it doesn't add much to the story. Maybe its because I'm not invested in them but the new characters are not very interesting. The old characters seem to be to busy doing unimportant thing to advance the plot. There is a lot of repetitiveness as well.  I really hope the next book is better because I really look forward to a good conclusion to a what otherwise has been a great series.
I have read all 5 books and find them to have a rediculous plot, there are too many villains. It lacks a believable plot line or redeemig value. Some of the characters are interesting but most of the plot twists are rediculous.
No spoilers here  The books go downhill all the way, so don't expect much of this one. I became a fan with the first and I'm trying to still be a fan, but it's really hard.  Expect each chapter to go into details of superfulous things, to be repeatable, and, worst of all, boring. In this last book the author has started to spend a lot of words in useless drama and finishing the chapter when something really happens. Then he skips all the things that happened so you go forward in time to when someone is remembering what happened. Boring and tedious.  Another important thing is that the author also goes to the next level in sexual references. And the repetitive use of phrases and words also is tiresome.  If you find a book that summirizes this one, get it. This book can be made to two pages per chapter easily. The rest is useless... and boring boring boring.
I'm sure I'll get disliked for this, but I can't stand how when he's doing the voices for younger characters, they still sound old and feeble. Daenerys shouldn't sound like an 80 year old woman, nor should she sound like a mixture of Scottish and Irish.
I will not forgive GRRM for not killing off Cersei in some horrible way. IF this series goes on long enough, if I live long enough to see it happen, maybe Tommen will grow up and  realize what a treacherous bitch his mother is and have her beheaded for trying to harm Margery. The only reasons I read this book were to find out what happened to Bran, the true lord of Winterfell, and to find out how Cersei died.  SOL on both counts.
The Game of Thrones peaked in book #3 for me.  These last 2 books have been dragging and not as exciting as the first three.
Just finished reading all five books.  Books 1-2 were very good, kept me reading, book 3 was not quite up to the same par, but still pretty good.  By book 4 there were so many characters being dropped almost completely I was confused, thinking maybe the next book would pick them back up and the story line that went along.  Not so...yet more new characters, and I'm not sure it added anything, in fact it was a hinderence to the original set up to these books.  Left feeling unsatisfied and disappointed that certain story lines that had been so strong and entertaining were dropped liked unwanted baggage for some reason.  What happens to Riccon? Why did you just end it that way for Jon? Where is Jaime? How about Sansa, oh and her mother! Do the Starks ever see each other again? Does Arya return to Westeros? Story lines started and abruptly missing now.  Will there be a book 6? I hope so, I hope it brings all back together and finalizes their stories.  I hope it's worth the money.  No real heroes in here to speak of and the ones you think will do something really big, don't.  Not one.  Like the title says, disappointing...
I too agree that George Martin is getting lost in his detail.  His writing which has been good, now feels like he took a writing course from Jaqmes Fennimore Cooper.  A chapter of the book could be reduced to a paragraph.  I also am tired of hearing the word "C__t" when referring to any woman.  It may be appropriate to use this highly offensive word occasionally for emphasis, but I started wondering if the author either dislikes women or has "had enough".  It degrades the books overusing it. I also am listening to this book on CD and the reader, Roy Dotrice, is fluent in speach, sounds like he is 80 years old, and his characters, especially the young women, sound like they are old crones.  Even children sound 90. I tend to always finish a book once started, but this gives me pause to reconsider doing this. The series is taking on the same tired writing that Stephen King had in the last books of his "Gunslinger " series.
I give only two stars because i am so sick of the main characters dying while the "bad guys" seem to flourish. I made myself get over Ned and Robb and catelyn as well. But just when i have created new heroes to champion they end up dead as well! can the good guys catch a break ever????? my gosh ,not every story has a happy ending but can anything go right for the good people in these books? Just one good thing ? c'mon already! enough is enough for me.
The bad has been well-documented: the book moves at a snail's pace, places its intrepid protagonists at the periphery while presumably more interesting stuff is happening "off-screen", it's full of endless digressions, it never coalesces, and everything sputters toward a muddled and unsatisfactory conclusion. There was probably a good fifth Tommy and Tuppence story to tell, but this isn't it.  That being said, while Mrs. Christie's storytelling prowess has failed her, her literary voice remains intact. The writing flows incredibly smoothly, an absolutely blessing when the pacing is so slow, and the ebb and the dialog retains her characteristic patter. If I were out of other Christies to read, it would be worth slogging through this one just to reconnect with a unique literary voice, even one far, far from the height of her powers.
More than a review, this is an explanation as to possibly why this book is not up to Dame Christie's standards.  This was the last book that she actually wrote.  Published in 1973 it means that she was in her early 80's when she wrote it.  During WW II - she wrote Curtain (Poirot's last case) and Sleeping Murder (Miss Marple's last case) and locked them in a vault to be published posthumously.  After the success of the movie version of Murder On The Orient Express, they publishing houses wanted more books.  Since she just was not able to write up to her old standards any more, she allowed Curtain to be published, and held on to Sleeping Murder.  Because Curtain was so successful, she went ahead and released Sleeping Murder for publication, but died in 1976 before it was actually printed.  To be honest out of the books she wrote in the 60's up until Postern of Fate in 1973 only two were up to standard (IMHO) - A Pale Horse & The Clocks - the rest were above average at best with Postern being the most "senseless" of the lot. Hopefully this will put the book in content and understand the reason why it does not quite "measure up"
I love Tommy and Tuppence, but this isn't the best book to feature this crime-solving duo.  (The best, in my opinion, is "By the Pricking of My Thumbs").  That said, this is better than some other works and is worth reading for pleasure.
George Martin rambles on and on with obscure names and places that have no relevance to the story.  I was disappointed.
Gods be good.  Has George R.R. Martin descended into some Sisyphean hell where he is forever condemned to pen a saga he has come to detest?  Apparently wearied of Westeros, he appears to pine instead for persianesque climes.  But, unlike the One Thousand and One Nights, these 1016 pages are unlikely to beguile either king or commoner. Even before this volume, Martin evidences a slipping of the literary leash.  Not only does his continued killing off of important characters often feel arbitrary and capricious, but the methodical physical and psychological maiming of the remaining protagonists cripples the story itself.  Deaths and devastating injuries should be significant in fiction.  They should propel a plot in an importantly different direction.  So far, this has not happened in A Song of Ice and Fire.  There have been numerous opportunities for such an occurrence, but then a central figure is dispatched, and the particular narrative falters. By A Dance With Dragons, some of the original POV/subplots should be merging.  Instead, they are wafting farther apart and are being weakened in entanglements with dozens of new personages and precipitous plot swings.  At times, by fits and starts, the story seems to be morphing into a decidedly different tale.  But, then, such digressions prove to be mere dalliances as Martin purges his yarn of one more character with whom he has apparently become bored.  It makes a reader want to bite her lip in despair.  For Martin's writing style is just as bold and true as ever.  His descriptions are finely drawn and deliberate and his dialogue as crisp and engaging as in A Game of Thrones. Hardcore fans are bound to engage this book, even if they have to endure legions of new characters, whether nameless wildlings or non-Westerosi with non-memorable monikers.  Such fans will do so simply to revel in the further (mis)adventures of Tyrion, Jon, Cersei, Dany, et alia. After all, Winds of Winter is coming.
If you want a "village life" book, this isn't badly written, but as a mystery it's a loser.  Spend your time elsewhere. The (spoiler) "bad guy" is never seen before the end, the first chapter is about nothing more than rearranging books, the motivation for mayhem in the present seems rather thin and hard to believe.
I've read dozens of Agatha Christie mysteries and would contend that she is one of the best ever in this genre, especially her early Hercule Poirot books.  However, this selection is far below Ms. Christie's best.  In fact, if it had not had her name on it, I can't believe that any major publisher would have accepted it.  Retirees Tuppence and Tommy Beresford and their Manchester Terrier, Hannibal, have moved to an old house in a resort village on England's coast.  The inciting incident is the discovery of underlining in an old children's book, suggesting a murder in decades past.  It seemed unlikely to me that anyone would have taken this seriously enough to investigate or that their curiosity would put the couple in danger.  The denouement is completely unsati9sfactory, vague and a teeny bit illogical.  The only interesting character is the yappy dog, until for unexplained reasons he sniffs out the murderer.  And then comes the letdown, which is so unlike this author.  I wish I hadn't read this and can't recommend it to any Christie devotee.  The creative juices simply were not flowing in this work, composed late in Dame Christie's career.
After reading this latest book, I still have no idea what has happened to Sansa, Arya, Jamie or the various wolves.  I guess I will create my own ending....... In my conclusion, Jon Snow will recover and go on to save the Starks and reunite the remaining dire wolves.
When you've reached the fifth of six discs, and the detectives are still trying to figure out whether they're actually investigating the mystery and, if not, whether they should start . . . you've got a problem. Christie was usually at her best with Tommy and Tuppence, but unfortunately all her worst faults are on display here. The book is 10 percent something that resembles a storyline, and 90 percent poorly fleshed-out characters sitting around repeating themselves, vaguely wondering about things, and throwing out references to Christie's previous books until the book sounds more like an advertising flier than an novel. Bill Wallis does a good job with the reading, but he has nothing to work with.  Unless you like hours and hours' worth of people talking in circles, stick with the other Tommy and Tuppence books, and leave this one alone.
When you are the world's best-selling author, and have given so much pleasure to readers for more than fifty years, the pressure to keep going must be hard to resist.  Dame Agatha kept going long enough to complete this last book a year or two before she died in 1974.  Don't expect the initiative and ingenuity found in her best mysteries.  She limits herself to a re-working of old plots.  Her sleuths are two of her earlier creations - Tommy and Tuppence Beresford, now in their 70s and chattering politely.  There is much tedious reminiscing, much collecting of village gossip, and the occasional diatribes on the ills of the world and the errors of the young.  Dogs, old gardens, old houses, old children's books and toys are included.  To take up an Agatha Christie book is usually like taking up a nice, warm, familiar cardigan.  You know you'll be cozy and comfortable and it's likely you'll be unwilling to take it off.  The trouble here is that the cardigan sags badly and seems to be unraveling.  It lacks tension and the requisite shape and pattern.  Shouldn't the book end with a solution that makes the reading of it worthwhile?  You won't find that satisfaction here.
This is more European Portuguese, so keep that in mind. Super small and good for travel, but I didn't get much use out of it. Just being honest.
This is a VERY tiny dictionary, which makes it very difficult to read. It also is geared toward British English, which further limits its usefulness for American readers. It is compact and plastic bound, which does make it a true "pocket sized" book, but if you are looking for readability and overall usefulness, I would look a bit further.
Tommy and Tuppence Beresford, now retired, move into a house in Devonshire. In an old children's book left in the attic, Tuppence finds cryptic clues to a murder which took place in the village during the First World War. The girl who died was mixed up in an old scandal to do with the passing on of naval secrets. But was she innocent or guilty? Intrigued, Tommy and Tuppence investigate. Suddenly Tommy and Tuppence are in danger, though no one can guess from what source, nor why their raking up of the past should be so bitterly resented. What can it matter now? This is the last book that Agatha Christie wrote, although not the last one to be published  it was followed by a few other, like Curtain, but they all date from before Postern. Unfortunately, Postern of Fate is one of, if not the, very worst books Christie wrote, and as such forms a sad ending to the enormously successful career of the Dame of Crime. The story never succeeds in catching the readers attention. It goes on and on, without really making a point. And when the chaotic plot finally unfolds in the last twenty pages, you might as well go to sleep. Strangely the conclusion is even more tiresome. The only reason to ever read this book is when you are like me and want to read every book written by Agatha Christie. But even then, be prepared to be utterly disappointed.
Tommy and Tuppence's final appearance is sadly weak: although Christie endows the couple with considerable charm, the story itself becomes increasingly vague and confused as the novel progresses, and there is no satisfying conclusion to the piece.  Avoid this one.
This was my least favorite of all the Song of Ice and Fire books. Even though it focuses on a lot of my favorite characters, very little of any consequence to the plot occurs in the entire book. In my opinion it could easily have been cut by 2/3's of its overall length and been much much better for it. The problem is if you have read this far into the series already you are probably too heavily invested in finding out what happens to quit now. My advice would be to borrow the book or check it out from your local library rather than spend any money to read it. It isn't worth any amount of money to read about how Jon Snow needs to feed some people, or how Dany suspects there is intrigue going on around her without ever finding out exactly what it was. As happens in just about every commercially successful "epic" fantasy series it appears that Mr. Martin has decided to pad the series a bit in order to add as many cars as possible on to the gravy train.
As much as I loved the first three books in this series, I disliked the final two.  Book 4 and Book 5 were so disappointing.  The first three books left me excited to start the following book, but the final two, not in the same way.  The final two left me feeling I can't wait to get these over with!!  I'm not saying don't purchase/read them, but be forwarned, the final two books leave a lot to be desired......
I won't go into detail since many others have done a far better job than I can. I'm only about 1/3 through this book so far. I was very disappointed in Feast for Crows and this book will join that one in the disappointment category. Storm of Swords was sooooo good! I didn't expect the 4th and 5th books in the series to be as good, especially since I had read the reviews, but my gosh. I'd say it's a fast read because you can skip a lot except in places it's so boring that I tend to fall asleep (I only have time to read at night). I wanted to read Dance with Dragons right away since I have been reading the entire series this year after getting hooked on the HBO show. All I can say is, I hope Winds of Winter is better and doesn't take Mr. Martin 5 years to publish because in 5 years, not only will I have forgotten everything I've read, but I may not care. I guess if you're a fan of the Song of Fire and Ice as I am, this is a must read, as I considered it, but be prepared to slog through it and be prepared for the characters to act differently than they did in Storm of Swords. 'Nuff said.
The author needs to start wrapping up the myriad of characters and move it along. There were some chapters I skimmed, and then started skipping. It seems like everyone is going to be a halfcripple survivor with no food, land or end in sight. The minor characters need to die or move away, the major characters need to do something more productive. This reads more like a reality tv show than a saga. This book was more boring than it should have been.
George Martin lost his mojo in writing book five of the fire and ice series.  while the first couple of books were refreshing and a cut above the average fantasy adventure, this book has Martin sinking into what constitutes a soap opera, with different characters and their stories being drawn out for the sake of a series, and at the cost of the integrity of the story.  It is a sad and disappointing decline.
I loved the first 3 books.  Literally could not put them down.  The 4th started getting way too detailed and draggin on.  No closure and GRRM keeps introducing even more characters and "losing" some.  This 5th book actually became boring and I lost interest.  The story line skips back in time and retelling story lines that have already been covered.  I'll probably read the next one, but if there isn't closure, that will be it for me.
The 5th book in this series completely forgets about characters included in the first four books and frankly left me wishing that I had not bought the book.
Some of the important characters have been omitted, and especially the story of Jon and Danaeris are too dragged out and boring. Some characters changed their personality completely and went from smart and cunning to complete idiots. I hope the next installment will be the page-turner that the others were. Come on, George, get with the program. I don't like to be bored. CAT
Boring. Does not live up to first three books. Does not need the sex as it is not true prono, but limits recommemding to younger readers. Lost train of story, therefore would not recommend.
AFFC was long but this was excruciatingly so. A few decent chapters (Theon, Barristan, Davos) but I couldn't get into the others. Even Tyrion, who I absolutely loved in the other books was relegated to a sad transient who was stuck on his fathers last words. This character thinning might be the worst part of the book. The story just never gained enough traction when compared to the first three, and maybe that is my mistake in comparing them to those books. The bar may be set too high, but that was his doing. Its a shame that he seems to have lost his drive/care about the series. The next book, which I will borrow from a friend, better be ridiculously good. Right now I would rather get more Dunk & Egg stories as that period in ASOIAF really intrigues me.
once again mr martin has strayed off the story and "A dance of dragons" was a disappointment.  I had been waiting for some closure. Where is the war that was due? what happened to those characters we fell in love with in westeros?? book 4 went over the cliff and book 5 hit rock bottom.  Please Mr. Martin get back in the groove, take us back to westerow and finish what was a stunning, colorful, whole heeated story so many of us fell in love with
So many unresolved story lines! too many cliff hangers, what was the point of giving so much time to so many characters if their lives did not matter in the end to the denouement ...unless there is a 6th book. So its like a tv show trying to stay alive for as long as people will watch. DISAPPOINTING!
Very disappointing. I'm assuming that everyone buying this book has read Books 1-4 of ASOIAF. If you thought book four was boring, book five is just as bad. Too many characters to keep track of, too many locations, not enough action. I don't know what HBO is going to do when Game of Thrones gets this far on.
It is obvious that Mr. Martin became tired of writing this series as this book was hastily written and lacked the passion and intricate framework of the previous books in this series.  What a huge disappointment as he hastily killed characters, left stories dangling and created more questions than answers.  Very, very disappointing.
After slogging thru heaven knows how many pages on my kindle  and also  constant recharging i reached the end of book 4 only to realize everything was left hanging and that there was another huge book left.  After reading (or should i say skimming thru pages of boring detail) book5 i find nothing has been answered.  Is there another book or resolution planned before i die?
If this epic is going to stand the test of time, books 4 and 5 should be significantly abridged. They were almost unnecessary, and one begins to wonder if GRRM put this out there soley to take advantage of the attention brought on by the HBO TV series. In my personal opinion, books 4 and 5 should be abridged to a lengthy epilogue of book 3. If 20 dollars means much to you, don't buy this book. I almost feel like I would have enjoyed the series more if I pretended that it stopped at book 3. Back to Dumas to wash this nasty taste out of my mouth.
I felt,  he put something out just for the sake of putting something out..  short of money maybe?? it did not progress the story much.. a little disapointed
I read this book as a child and again as a young adult. 25 years later, it came up in conversation with a friend and I realized I remembered very little of the specifics in the story. I wanted to reread it, so purchased this for my Kindle.  I am guessing that the ones that I read when I was younger must have been abridged versions.  This was significantly longer than I remember, and so filled with detail that it was  very tedious to try and read. I love reading, and when I get into a good book I have trouble putting it down. This was so tedious that I could only handle reading it for 20 or 30 minutes at a time and had to keep walking away from it and taking breaks. Definitely recommend that if somebody is interested in the story to locate an abridged version instead!
The first three books were so good, but four and five are boring and disconnected. In fact, I am still struggling through five and not sure I will finish it. It is not going anywhere. I am ready for an ending.
It was dumb. The women acted like 5 year olds more than half of the time and the mother, who stressed the importance of resources, decided to give away food. Genius.
I couldn't get into this book at all so returned it.,
Of course I loved the story however whomever printed this book did not do a good edit job. There are multiple misspelling, wrong words used which wouldn't be picked up with spell check, bad grammar, and bad formatting. I think if this book was bought for the younger Folk, they would have a hard time understanding some of the verbiage used because of the errors.
This book was short and fat and thicker then the bible with about 800 pages. I bought for my daughter but had to return it. When I opened to the middle of the book my thumbs could not hold the pages without them slipping out of my hands. There is no way a 12 year old could hold them. What a pain in the butt. They should make a copy normal size with the beautiful color. I returned this and got one at half price books.
Hope this is the last one!  Got more and more tedious!  Does anything ever have a true conclusion?  This is the 5th book on the same thing with basically the same "people".  Time to end this saga.  Tired of it, & do NOT plan to read anymore.  In fact, I did not finish # 5! Enough already.
The cover image of this book claims it comes with a free audio book, however when purchased I found this to be untrue.  I immediately returned the book.
The story was slowing down much in book 4 and now in book 5 ist  finally seems not to move at all. Martin has not lost his abilities. The main characters still develope in an interesting and credible way. Yet somehow without time moving around them.  The more I think about it the more I come to the sad conclusion that the story cannot go on. Winter will not come because it can't.  The flaw lays in the very beginning of the first book. What I nice idea to create a world were summers and winters are not bound to their proper places within one year. A place with summer children who never see winter during their childhood. It  was the implication of cruel winter of equal length which made the Others what they are: a looming menance, something you cannot avoid or hide from for a view chilly month in order to survive. You want to survive such a winter - you have to face and overcome the Others.  But if you try to go into details of that winters you soon realize that it needs no Others to ruin Westron. This world is so closely related to our middle age that it never had any chance surviving such winters. The agriculture , the society, the towns, farms inns everything seems somehow familiar. But such a world has no ability to survive some years of snow covered frost. It has no need of a five king war or even Others to go extinct in any of such winters.  Martin in not Tolkien. He invested all his creativity in interesting, fascinating characters. I love him for that. But he did not put equal consequence in creating a society that has the ability to survice 5 years without a harvest and without means of transportation in the blasting winter storms. Such a world simply could not be organised and look like our middle ages.  And now he feels it. Winter simply cannot start, the story cannot progress. Winter will not come.  Wolfgang
I hated this book as a child and still do today. I lost 3 copies in my many attempts at trying to read the book. My parents thought it was hilarious to buy a copy for Christmas and give it to me. I challenged myself to finish this "classic". I managed to do so. A book must enrapture me and make me want to NOT put the book down. Little Women has never done that for me and I will only unwillingly read it if I have to. It took me 15 years to finally finish the book front to back...and now it collects dust!
If I wasn't already thousands of pages into this series I would have considered dropping it after Feast for Crows.  I found myself skipping over paragraph after paragraph of useless descriptions of food items and repetitive character thoughts and insight.  Also find myself wishing there was some corresponding timeline between all the characters.  Also, the original credit I gave the author for his willingness to kill off some popular, central characters has turned sour as now it seems like everyone must die and we are left with characters who have not been fully developed are have too few pages dedicated to them. Hopefully the author will wrap this up neatly in the next book and be done with it!
I wasn't more than forty pages into this latest failure of GRMM,s, when I realised how repetitive and lacking of story advancement it was. It is so full of loose ends, a professional seamstress could tie them up. Martins problem is he no longer controls the story, the story is controlling him. He appears to be writing whatever garbage pops into his head, to fill pages and hopefully find a conclusion, one where he can pick it up for the continuance, "Winds". I'd like to know if the timeleine of "The Winds of Winter", will be before Dance with Dragons, because in the main part of the book, DWD, a raven arrives from Lord Ramsey, advising that Stannis and his army have been wiped out, but in the first pages of Winds, we have Stannis back planning his attack on Winterfell. If a boring book that you can skip every second line interests you, buy it, otherwise give it a BIG miss. Everything that needed to be said in the storyline, was said in the first three books. Will I buy "Winds", no way, I might venture to the libary and take it out, just to see if he can put an end to this horrific saga. I awarded it two stars on the basis, one for content and story, and one for length. 1099 pages plus the epilogue a total of 1117, a mammoth effort of writing in circles.
I have to admit, I was excited to get this book and continue on with the saga, but it just isn't what it used to be. Maybe it is simply that too many of the characters I liked have died, or the story is simply getting too morbid and fantastical, or maybe it is just too long now and I am looking for some closure, but starting with this book, the story just didn't have the same draw for me. It took me weeks to get through the first 100 pages, then I finally just stopped. It doesn't mean the book isn't worth reading, but just be ready for this book to not live up to your expectations.
This book was such a let down for me.  Especially since the first 3 were great and fun to read. The last book was so long and boring.  I wish I would have read Macaroni's review first.  Would have saved me a lot of time. Hopefully the book(s) that follow will be better.
The book was good, but I am starting to get bored of the characters and really would like to see at two of the original family members meet up instead of dying.
although it arrived fast, it is way to small of print to read. looks like a large elementary school notebook. bought the book again in normal size and gave this one to the goodwill
I have to agree with the other criticisms I've read. It's almost like  harlequin romance, an old-school bodice ripper, in its silly attention to clothing and so forth. Too soap-opera-y for me.
I have been reading this series since 1997, and it almost pains me to say that this book is not worthy of the first three.  The fourth book, Feast for Crows, received a good review from me based on the assumption that Martin would follow his original plan and focus on the characters we care most about in Dance.  He betrayed that idea.  Dance only follows Dany and Jon for a limited amount of time, and it introduces several characters that no one cares about because we don't know them.  The book was a waste of time and money, and it may have kept me from finishing the series.  Martin is receiving undeserved rave reviews for this book from critics based on the fact that he has a television show.  Anyone who has been reading Martin for a while knows that this book is a colossal failure compared to his previous work.  If you are not hell-bent on finishing this series, leave it alone.
The Puffin Classics Hardcover UK Edition of Little Women (ISB: 9780141379012) ONLY INCLUDES BOOK ONE of TWO! I did not realize that this edition would be missing book two, so I had to return it.  The Puffin Classics Hardcover edition has a beautiful purple cover design. The interior of the cover is bright pink and the font size is medium (so it's easy to read). Unfortunately, the quality of the paper is unsatisfactory, since it's the same quality of cheap, grey-beige paper used in mass market paperbacks, unbefitting such a pretty hardcover edition.
This is the fifth book in a series.  I first saw the video of Game of Thrones and was hooked so I bought the book which really cemented my interest in the Starks and the Lanisters.  I couldn't wait to read the next book which had many surprising twists that led me to the third book which I enjoyed but not as much as the preceding volumes.  I struggled with the fourth book but did finally finish it and I purchased the fifth book which was so slow and dull that I quit reading after 600 pages -- I might ultimately finish it but I'll wait and see.  I became entranced with Ned and Catelyn Stark and their Children Sansa, Robb, Bran, Arya, and Rickon.  Tyrion Lanister was easily the most interesting character I have encountered in a long time.  Cersei and Jaime Lanister were equally fascinating as was Brienne.  But Martin killed off Ned and Catelyn Stark and that was just the beginning.  By the time you get to Dances with Dragons Robb Stark is murdered, Arya has disappeared into some sort of religious order but her status is unresloved. Jon Snow has gone off fighting Zombies of all things and his story just gets duller and duller.  Bran seems to be headed into some sort of weird status as a "changling" or a tree -- undetermined.  Rickon Stark just vanishes from the story.  Tyrion's story just drags on and on with no resolution and his ultimate fate is not resolved.  Jaime seems on the cusp of redemption with Brienne but his story is left hanging and whether or not Brienne was killed is left open.  In short all of the characters who made the story interesting are either killed off or left hanging for what surely must be book 6.  To make matters worse books 4 and 5 could easily have been reduced to 300 pages each by simply dropping all of the tedious descriptions of clothes and food.  Plus more and more characters are introduced who lack any of the interest of the original characters.  I found myself skimming through whole pages of descriptions that did nothing for the story.  I started skipping all of Jon Snow's battle with the zombies as being simply too dumb to accept.  At that point I realized I was done and no longer cared about any of the characters.  A great start to a wonderful series but it deteriorates into a very poorly written soap opera about people I don't like and have  no interest  in.  It is a dull and tedious end to what could have been a great story.
I am amazed by Martins' abililty to develope characters that you route for and some of the most dispicable characters ever created in literature. The problem is the use of these characters. The saga continues and more story lines are added to the already over inundated story. Nothing is concluded. I did not feel any closer to resolution after this book than when I began. As I have from the beginning, I feel almost beaten up at points. In conclusion, with the extraordinary length of this novel, I am very disappointed with the result. Unfortunately, It is impossible for me to give up on a series one I start. If you don't have this issue, I don't recommend this book.
Weirdly edited. words run together. Odd.
I read books one to three of the series and found them rather entertaining.  Book four left me with lots of unresolved cliff-hangers and then this one came along.  Huge disappointment.  Turgid and rambling, going off down all sorts of irrelevant side allies while barely even mentioning the plot points left hanging at the end of book four.  Not only that, but the violence - and yes, there's plenty in all the books because that's what the story is about, took some rather nasty and vicarious turns, all a bit unpleasant.  I think the whole series would have been better if it were to have been condensed and wrapped up on three or four volumes.  I have to say that at the present rate of publication and with maybe four or five years to wait for volume six and then who knows how long until seven I may not bother continuing.  Such a shame.
I had read it when I was young and liked it, but reading it now (for my book club) was a chore.  Too goody, goody, too sanctimonious.  I suppose that it was typical of the age in which it was written.
This was a lousy book. The plot barely advanced, favorite characters turned into "please kill them off now" types, the faked deaths reached an absurd level, to the point where no one will believe anyone killed off is actually dead until they are being eaten...  Aside from the terrible editing and the whole Dany thing, this is three stars. I will not be buying the next book without learning that it is significantly better.
Its clear now after Feast and Dancing either Martin, the publisher, or both want to milk this for all its worth and there is no plan to conclude the saga. Yet again, as in FFC this one has no plots resolved and too many new characters. I remember when this was supposed to be a three book series. I wish it had stayed that way. I will buy the next book but I will buy a used version because the series is no longer worth $10.
In addition to all the other reviews complaining about how nothing actually progresses, this book and AFFC to a slightly lesser extent, were obviously written for the small screen.  Now while it is great that HBO series brought so many more fans to the series, it is a big disappointment to me that GRRM seems to be writing an extended screenplay rather than an novel.  The quality of the dialogue and the subtlety of plot from the first 3 books seems to have gone straight out the window to suit the blunt instrument that is a TV and it's bigger, dumber audience.  From someone who has reread the first three books numerous times digging for details that might have been missed the first time around, this book is the equivalent of a literary cheez-it.
I love Little Women but this book was not the complete story.
HBO Season 5 A Game Of Thrones <SPOILER ALERT> A Dance with Dragons Episode 1 - Baby It's Cold Outside The Wall - The Lord Commander Jon Snow receives a visitor. "Maester Samwell. Good to see you .." "Jon, what are you talking about?" "Well you have returned to the Wall a Maester." "No Jon, that was book 4, season 4 and G. R. R. Martin does not write in a linear fashion, which is good, because that story line was going nowhere.  I'm here to tell you that I'm going to seek out the Dragon Queen. " "What?" "Hey, everyone in book 5 has the same idea about bedding the silver haired beauty, so I thought I'd take a shot."  Meereen - Dany holds court Dany - "Hizdahr zo Loraq, what do you want today?" "Marry me." "No" "Open the fighting pits." "No, but I flash a breast at you."  The Wall Jon - Stannis kicked the wildings arses now he wants his arse kissed  The North Bran's arse puts down roots.  Reek rhymes with peek rhymes with oh hell It's Theon Greyjoy that rhymes with Theon Greyjoy.  The South Who Cares? The Spider kills some people and Cersei,  well it's Cersei.  The Shire Bilbo Baggins receives some guests that eat and drink and invite him on a quest.  Helion Prime Riddick kicks the Lord Marshal's arse and sticks a blade in his skull.  Aereon the elemental exclaims, "HBO will finish the entire series of A Song of Ice and Fire. Now what would be the odds of that?"  The parody video of "George R . R. Martin write, write like the wind." says it all.  Ratings: A Game of Thrones 4 1/2 stars A Clash of Kings  4 1/2 stars A Storm of Swords 4 1/2 stars A Feast of Crows  3 stars A Dance with Dragons 3 stars  I have the series of books and agree that the ratings are spot on. G. R. R. Martin needs to reach deep down to pull this series out. I believe he has it in him, but does he?  "Your words are wind."
In book one we are introduced to House Stark and, as with most fantasy books, I thought they were the good guys and good guys win. Case in point, Paul of House Atreides in Dune.  Not so with this author.  I like a more concise vision of story telling where the plot advances and the ancillary characters have some point in being a part of the whole. This author has thrown so many characters and sub-plots into the mix that it's hard to keep them all in mind with the few times they give their points of view. With five books read, I cannot imagine the author completing a satisfying ending to all the plot lines in five more books.  While I would love to see where this story ends, I'm not sure I want to wait several years for the next book, and the next book more years after. Congratulations to all who have been with the story since it's inception and waited the many years for A Dance with Dragons.  I don't have enough of an emotional investment in the remaining characters and probably don't have that kind of patience.
Probably the worst book of this series I read them all and the story line was pretty consistent but this book rambles on and spends chapter after chapter on developing characters that do not intertwine with the first 4 books at all...Have to say I had to convince myself to continue,hoping that the story line would improve! I would not suggest this as a book to read at all. Sorry George but this just is not a good quality book to  read at all,sorry I spent the money to purchase this one.
Loved the first 2 books and the 3rd was solid, but I really have disliked the last 2. This is a story that should have ended with by the 3rd or 4th book. It seems to me it is an attempt by the author to try to make some more money. Where I could not put the first 2 books down, I have struggled to finish the last 2, with the only reason being that I invested too much time already to not finish the series.
I just started reading this book and am very frustrated that Martin didn't stay true to following each person's story as it was unfolding.  This book has story lines for which the future is already known, hence it lacks suspense. I hope it moves quickly to catch up to where we left people's lives in book four.
The book was not the size of a normal book so it is hard to carry around place to place to read. The print in the book is super small and is hard to read and is very overwhelming when you open the book.
The formatting of this ebook could use some tweaking. The story itself is a personal favorite, hence my disappointment with this version.
I just finished DoD and I truly feel like it was a waste of time. I loved the first 3 books, thankfully I read the reviews about a Feast of Crows and wasn't too disappointed  by the fact that a lot of the characters I had invested in were no where in the book. I also read the reviews for this book, and bought it, and skimmed, skimmed, skimmed - oh read about Theon, skimmed, skimmed, read a bit about Arya, skimmed over all the useless filler, no forward moving dialogue- ugh just boring! What happened? How could the first 3 books be SO GOOD, and the last 2 so poor?
I loved the first three books in this series. But after a feast for crows, I was about ready to give up. Now, having read a dance with dragons, I do give up. This series could've been wrapped up a few thousand pages and several thousand trees ago. We are now hopping and skipping from character to character without any real advancement of plot. I no longer care what happens to any of these people. There are a few characters I might have still cared about, if anything interesting had ever happened in this book.  In other words, if the next book ever comes out, I'm keeping my money and saving my time.
This particular edition is only 95 pages - how can that be?  Three columns of 3pt font per page.  It is pretty much unreadable as a result.  Just pick a different edition
I came late the this series so I have had the ability to read all five books in a short time span. I loved the first three and enjoyed the last book but when the author split the books and decided to leave out the Pov's of central character until Dance he did a disservice to the reader. I invested hours and hours to finally see the story advance and Cersi finally getting a taste of her own medicine; then Dance comes along and the story goes backward. While I like a lot of these characters I just do not care because we already know what happens I am plodding through the book and it is well written; although as other reviews pointed out it is very long winded and could use editing. I just do not care what each person ate for every single meal!  I feel especially bad for those that waited 6 years and then received a book that went backwards. It feels like being cheated a little. It seems as if GRmm doesn't know where he is heading and is stalling until he figures it out. That is how I feel so far about this book; it is one very long stall.  Now that I have caught up the series I doubt I will be anxious for the next book.
The font size is very small. The chapters are condensed onto the pages. I need a magnifying glass to read. Of course the book (content) is a great read. I should have paid attention to the description/ details.
This story is sooooo slow. I wanted to like it and kept reading thinking it was going to be over soon but then I noticed I was only 35% into the Kindle book so I gave up. I just couldn't go on. Sorry Louisa May Alcott. I tried.
If you are a fan of the books you know you will read this regardless of the reviews. This book moves at a snails pace and the characters are less interesting. Tyrion has lost his mojo and the dragon mother is a waffling bore. The plot moves forward somewhat but I was disapointed overall. You don't have to rush out and buy right away because it may be years before the next installment.
Very disappointed when I found out it is only part 1. Complete and unabridged is a bit misleading, although I understand it was originally published in 2 parts. Otherwise, it is a very pretty, special copy of the story.
The characters are interesting and engaging.  However, the ending of this book seemed like he was running out of time and had  a pressing publishing date.  I would suggest that the author read a few books by Tolkien, JK Rowling and try to deliver a more satisfying ending.  The end of this book was crap.
SPOILERS I found myself skipping large portions of the book, it rambled at places, too many added characters, it was often just not gripping like the first four books.  Nothing much gets resolved... I can see a 7 book epic, but at this point, it's just going on and on, maybe five books is enough for anybody to tell their story.  Everything seems to be converging on Daenerys, but it takes VERY long for things to even converge on her, and THEY still don't by the end of the book.  Tyrion travels to get to her.  Does he reach her?  NOPE.  Aegon travels to reach her, does he get to her?  NOPE.  Victarion travels to get to reach her as well, does he get to her...?  Any guess.... NOPE!  I did enjoy reading about Selmy, Daenerys and seeing Cersi however and maybe I'll give it a second try, but it didn't hold my attention like the first four books did.
Up through maybe book 3 this series was moderately entertaining.  It becomes less and less interesting (or logical) with each succeeding book.  I have completed book 5 and would frankly recommend a new reader not waste any money on ANY of the books.  However, if you have started, don't expect anything in books 4 and 5 to resolve anything.  In fact, don't even expect them to make any sense.  Characters change their spots in ways  that seem unrelated to previous happenings.  It's some of the worst writing I have ever read.  It's as if the author started out with some good ideas, got to a certain point and then essentially thought, "what happens now?".  So he just kept writing "at random" as thoughts danced through his head.  Don't know what to do as you write your book(s)?  Well just ignore what has already happened, add some new, pointless characters, endless pages of filler that does nothing, and keep on writing.  Don't waste the time or money like I did.
...or have forgotten most of it along the way.  Where is the powerful story-smith that started this series?  Finishing this book was painful and I cheered when I finished the last page, and not because it was a grandiose finale, which it wasn't.  I was glad that I'd managed to wade through 950+ pages and emerge sane on the other side.  While I am still interested in where the characters end up, I didn't enjoy their journeys in this book and need to put some serious thought into whether I buy the next one in the series or not.  Maybe two chapters in the entire book were enjoyable and left me wanting more, but the rest was a truly painful slog.
8`x10` size paperback super tiny print!
All has been said about this mess but I add my two cents anyway - and my two stars as well.  GRRM was once a great writer, up until the year 2000 with the publication of Storm of Swords. Then he ceased to be a writer, became a travelling salesman and is now living of the glory of the past (and HBO) like a vulture from the rotten carcass of a prize horse. How fitting that the 2000th review of Dance with Dragons tells YOU - potential reader -  how it truly is: Don't Buy This Book, it's a giant hoax. Filler ridden, no plot, character retardation etc etc.  Don't let yourself be fooled by the astonishing number of 5* reviews, about half of them are fake and bough for $5 a piece. Very easy to discern as well. Normally this book would deserve 1,5* top so I am quite generous here with my 2*. Why this? Call it nostalgia for the good old times when GRRM was still a writer (and the Theon story arc is quite good.)  And in closing: Professional critics and HUGO, LOCUS juries etc.: do yourself a favour and reward a book by its quality and not by its sales numbers. You'll lose all credibility otherwise. Thank you.  Bye George, it was quite a ride. But it's over now. Enjoy your wealth.
This book quality was awful. It was like a cheap magazine. YES it was that big.
This is bigger than a magazine. Its layout is very strange...
Too many characters, too many plotlines, too many locales. Too many uses of the phrase "She/He was not wrong". GRRM along the way decided he wasn't interested in writing books (you know, those things that follow a compelling arc). Instead, he decided to simply tell a story. The problem is that the events directly following the action in "A Storm of Swords" are just not very interesting.  ADwD has its moments however GRRM's unpredictability has become predictable. So, even when developments occured that I'm assuming GRRM designed to surprise, I've reached a point where I don't get too excited because, chances are, whatever you think is happening will be proved false in 200 pages or so.  So, in summary, ADwD--even more than AFfC--was a disappointment. I'm not sure I'll bother with book six of the series.
"A Dance with Drag Ons"  There, fixed. And someone fire the editor, please.  For the remainder of this saga, I will be relying on the good reviewers on Amazon and the screenwriters from HBO to tell the story.
No need for the 12 paragraph reviews I've been reading.  The review is simple: After the third book this guy just ran out of gas but was making so much dough he kept going. Sort of. But not very well.
Much and more of this book was as useless as nipples on a breastplate. Words are wind after all. Sad to say, but this one learned little and less in the book's forty and eleven hundred pages than he had hoped of the goings-on in Westeros, and much and more about how badly GRRM needs a braver editor.
I guess it's okay, it has no copy right information  like normal books have makes me wonder if it's really unabridged.  Price is  a little high for how cheap it feels for a book.
Having just finished A Dance with Dragons which is Book five in the Fire and Ice series by George R. R. Martin, it occurs to me how the series will end in the planned seventh book: there will be only two characters still alive (sort of) who will alternately capture and torture the other, the imprisoned one will escape over countless miles and misfortunes, but being so tormented he/she will change their name and plot how to imprison the other.  Then the former oppressing character will be captured by the former prisoner (only after killing any remaining peasants along the way), will take sexual advantage of the other, will have various body parts removed or mutilated, and generally debase the other as completely as possible.  Great fodder for an HBO mini-series.  The final scene will probably involve cannibalism (yet again) and some will read to that final scene to see who gets in the last bite.  Not me.  I began enjoying the author's writing in the early books and his excellent character development, but the repeated attempt at cliff hanging endings to chapters, constant pointless wars that decimated the countryside, bizarre story twists, killing off most characters, debasing of all the people and characters, and weak storytelling lead me to keep drudgingly reading in hope that the story would come together and some theme or coherent story lines would emerge.  Alas, this has not and likely will not happen.  Read on in morbid curiousity, if you must, but I quit the series right here.
I feel that there were too many details and story lines that needed resolution. Characters left hanging. I'm sorry that I ever started this series and I may be dead before the final 2 books are published. Perhaps I should create my own endings?
Just like a fish, I was hooked with the first three books and now I'm writhing in pain, just trying to get away. The last two parts, including "A Dance With Dragons," have failed to capture my imagination like the series originally did. The books have morphed into the "Oregon Trail" game. It just feels like Martin is walking in circles to nowhere, moving in slow motion, gradually killing off every core character in the process. Unfortunately, just like thousands (or perhaps millions) of others, I'll still probably purchase the final books, just so I don't feel like I've completely wasted my time reading the others. I fear by the end, though, just like all of Martin's characters, I will have died of dysentery.
I used to say that George RR Martin was careless with his characters. After reading his last two books, I am afraid that he is now careless with his readers.
I think at first GRRM was paid by the book, and probably now he's paid by the page.. So he's putting more and more water in the sauce.  I've gone through the last two books only because I got "hooked" by the first three who were brilliantly written, full of action and DYNAMIC!  The last two (crows and dragons) are slowing to an almost standstill... The sad part is that you follow the characters you used to love... but they are now boring and the action's getting sloooooow.  We feel like hostages reading the books just because we got addicted to the story, just like a bad movie you keep on watching  just because you want to see the ending; hoping and hoping that it'll get better...  If you didn't read it yet, don't start reading the books it will bring you only frustration and anger. Just like the electricity shutting off during your favorite tv series...
Like so many others, I picked up on this series after the show aired.  The first book was fairly interesting, if not exceptional within the Fantasy genre.  Since then, Martin's droll writing (entire pages of names/foods, frequently repeated monologues, etc.) have ruined this series for me.  A hodgepodge of underdeveloped characters, coupled with an agonizingly slow plotline, have made what could be a very successful story into something not worth the price of printing it (e-ink included).  One chapter's lack of vivid descriptions leaves a bad taste in my mouth, which is immediately picked up by the next unremarkable chapter's lack of significant action or plot development and so on.  I'm not usually one to give up on a series once I've started it - if only to find out how it ends - but I do not plan on reading any more from Martin.
The text is SO small in this book. I bought it for my mom and I think I'll need to return it. I can barely read it myself!
I love this book, but was disappointed in this version.  The picture on the cover is the same as I've been reading from the library, but it seems entirely rewritten. Also, the illustrations inside are very poorly drawn!  =(  I was very disappointed.
Took me almost a year to read all five books. Books four and five were disapointing and book five was convoluted, anti-climatic and left you wondering what happened. So many characters that you cared about and situations just left hanging in mid air. Seems like the author just got tired of writing about it. Hope the HBO series will be better.
George RR Martin has lost his way-- much like Bran. And Rickon. ("Who? Oh yeah, Rickon. Whatever happened to him?" Exactly!)  The story meanders aimlessly. Martin loses track of the characters we care about, opting to introduce new ones instead. YAWN!!!  GRRM: Wrap it up, man! The Hero's Journey is over when S/He RETURNS home! Get on with it!  I can't believe he introduced DRAGONS in Book One... and never USES them! Let's see what these guys can do already!!!  If this guys dies tomorrow, I will be so completely pissed!!!
I love the series and its probably one of the best fantasy novels ever written. This book just kept dragging and dragging and dragging and.....etc.  No real ACTION: So you would expect some dragons flying, killing and taking over a couple of cities. Nope!! not gonna happen!!  Honestly if it was not for Tyrion's chapters and the fact that I was sick in bed and had nothing else to do, it would have been a boring read.
I never read this as a child, and as an adult I find it too sugary and too dull.  I didn't get very far.
I felt like I went to a great movie and had to leave 45 minutes before it was over. I never got to see the ending of the movie. George Martin spends way to much time on character thoughts and not enough time on the story.
This book (and the last) were a drag. This author needs some serious editing! Seems like he is getting lost in the descriptive part of the narrative and the thrust and direction are too diluted by far. Also, we are running out of original protagonists, and I find myself becoming detached from the characters. There are only two I care about any more, and it is getting hard to wade through pages and pages of descriptive nothingness to keep up with them. Not sure I will continue with the series. I feel kind of abused!
Too many subplots, too many characters, too much build up, too little resolved, too many books, too many descriptions of food, too little individual character development, too much repetition.
So disappointed.  As what most readers will say, the first three books were phenomenal.  I could not put the books down.  Now though with the last 2, and especially this one, I forced myself to finish.  It really feels like GRRM has lost interest in this series and that he is only writing now for a paycheck.  This book was mostly filler, just like the previous one.  GRRM would spend pages on how someone felt, look or just the scenery.  I am also getting a sense that he has no idea what to do with his characters anymore.  They just keep dieing.   When the next nook comes out (whenever that may be), I will definitely wait to see what the reviews are prior to spending the money to buy it.  The series is so not worth the money as it currently stands.
Perhaps Im not a true and loyal fan of the series. I started reading them in August of 2011...its now the end end of April 2012 and today I finished Dance w/Dragons. I never really had to wait for anything to be written. When DWD got too long winded for me I just started skimming..whooshing through to the next good bit. Not a problem for me. If it turned out that the once skimmed part was necessary to my understanding of the story I fanned back the pages and got what was needed. It's a great story and Ill wait for the next book calmly knowing that if it never comes Ill imagine the ending for myself...after all it may not be Georges story anymore anyway. I do wonder tho how they'll cope with this all at HBO.
My expectations remained just that, expectations. Did not enjoy the book. I would have prefered to see the book continue in the same way as the rest of the books.
I'm not investing anymore time or money in this series. 5 years between books and the author coughs up this Hairball. George needs to get over himself.
So far there is no dancing going on. All the characters have become ones with no brain and not a thought before the stupidity. I have this book on kindle and have fast forwarded chapter after chapter. He writes about characters that I could give a flying flip for and only writes a little about whom I would think was the main characters. What is sad it has ruined the series on HBO for me as well. Why kill off so many of the main characters? Who cares what color every single person is wearing, or every detail of all their ancestors? It's liking reading history books in school except I paid for the book. Man and all the very detailed facts of the tortures. I won't be buying anymore of the books in this series, what would the point be? I think he got high and kinda wondered off.
I hate so say it, but I'm done with this series. George has killed off most of the good characters and I really don't feel like getting invested in another character that may have been mentioned three books ago that I have no recollection of. The only interesting one left is Aria and you could write one good book about her alone. I do not care to wait eight or so years for the next book.
This is not a "dance with dragons", it is more like a lame middle school dance where everyone just stands around looking at each other.  There is hardly any plot advancement and Martin introduces new characters with boring story lines instead of bringing existing points of view closer to a logical conclusion.  I'm willing to bet that once the series is completed you could probably skip this book and the fourth one and still have a complete story.  Seriously, what happened?  The first three books were great, now it seems like Martin just doesn't care anymore.  Is this really the best he could come up with after an almost 6 year hiatus since the last book and almost 11 years since he wrote a good book (Storm of Swords)?
Like most of us who are huge fans of the series, this book demonstrated an author who needs to learn less is more and for us fans for having set expectations higher than was fair. Saying all that the book was a huge disappointment and I am done with this series.
BIG DISAPPOINTMENT.  Only 1st part of the novel.  Had to order another book to get complete.  Poor job of describing what this book actually  is.
After reading 'A Dance With Dragons,' I am officially giving up on this series. I am convinced that GRRM has no idea where this story is going, and to deflect from this fact, he simply ignores his established characters (or kills them off for no good reason I can see) and brings in several new, much less interesting characters. I feel like I'm being jerked around, which was kind of a novel concept at first. However, it's gotten old. Write the story you started, Mr. Martin; that's the one I signed on for.
I got the audio version of this book and have been trying to finish it since it came out 6+ months ago. It is hard work. I keep falling asleep. I thought it was just the narrator's lack of enthusiasim but it sounds like others have the same problem with the book too. I loved the first 3 books, but I don't know if I can take much more of this.
....save your money and borrow from the library or a friend.  You will need to renew...and renew...and renew.  It moves THAT slowly.  It's not terrible, just not good.  It is a disappointing step in the series.  I have it on my Nook so if I'm completely bonkers bored or stuck on the subway I may pick it up and plod on.  Or I may do something more interesting like contemplate my shoelaces.
I will keep this review short, and defer to other reviews for more detail on why this book turned a, otherwise, good novel series into a waste of my time and money.  It's CRAP!
I could hardly wait for "Dance with Dragons"  and then it left me feeling betrayed and disappointed . I have great respect for the preceding books and feel Mr. Martin could have finished up much better.
I loved the first three books.  I was hoping the 4th was a fluke, but after finally getting through a Dance with Dragons I am bored.  I actually couldn't read more than one chapter without falling asleep.  I feel like half of this book could have been cut out and still gotten to the same ending point.  I would love to know how the story ends, but I don't think I can get through another book like this without knowing when the end is.
When I was a kid I wished so often that the Lord of the Rings never ended. Now that Martin has basically done what I wanted Tolkien to do I am sooo glad that Tolkien was smart enough to conclude a perfect tale. What started out as true genius, as one of the greatest stories I have ever read has devolved into something quite boring. What a shame really. Someone please make him stop! Where the hell is his editor? How many meals can a writer describe in minute detail before an editor calls him up and just says "Seriously?"  Sadly no one stopped him. Maybe someday George RR Martin will come to his senses and rewrite Books 4 and 5 in this series and do it right.  I just don't know if I can wait another 11 years to find out.
For six dollar i will read this book for fifteen through by kindle....i don't think so. Thanks everyone for the reviews I wish I would have listened before i read Feast for Crows
What a long and boring book.  Loved the first four but this book jumps around and nothing is finished.  What the heck!  Is Mr. Martin losing it?  I'm sorry I bought it.
In the afterword of Book 4, the author mentions producing lots of pages for us; indeed so many he decided to cover half the characters in one book the other in a second half (A Dance with Dragons) and cut the effort in half.  George, unfortunately it really does feels like this is what you are doing...creating pages, but in the process loosing the spirit and vitality of your story, and us your readers.  It feels like there are books to be sold versus a story to tell.  This is sad.  I hope you can get back to where you started in the first three books and finish with something your readers would enjoy remembering; rather than minucia with little or no purpose than filler.
Haven't started reading this yet, but with 2/3 of the reviews giving it 3 stars or less and blaming it on bad writing in books four and five I doubt if I will take the time to even start. Author please note that some people will be influenced by the opinion of others
This book was 900 plus pages to nowhere.  I really enjoyed the fiirst 4 books but this book was not as event full or engaging.  I'm glad I did not buy it.  Thanks for public libraries
This is certainly not a reflection on the story, itself. However, I was quite disappointed when the paperback arrived, as the description was misleading and was for the hardback book only. The paperback has no artwork other than the purple cover. The text is large and suitable for younger readers, though, which is a plus if that is what you are looking for. IF YOU WANT THE ANNOTATIONS AND PICTURES, DO NOT BUY THE PAPERBACK!
I would have to say it is worth waiting until they drop the price to 8.99. Really, it is not a must read.
I managed to read the whole thing mainly because I was too stubborn to give up, but I skipped a lot of it. Boring, slow and tedious. Hope the next one is better!
I was quite excited for the latest installment following the rather dull forth book but was yet again disappointed. The chapters are excessively over-stuffed with pointless text surrounding minuscule hints at the actual story line.
It is getting out of hand! Too many sub-plots make it confusing. I did not enjoy it as much as previous books.
I could almost tolerate the 4th and 5th books in the series if it wasn't for the fact that the timing skips around between them and some thing you know from the 4th book are not "known"  in chapters of the 5th.  Drowning in detail and with no apparent progress, this is ridiculous.  The height of it was reading about Jon and Samwell debating about leaving the wall in the 5th book when he is already in oldtown at the end of the fourth.  Cmon, get real.  Time in a book should be linear (at least approximately) and you should not have to read redundant material that means nothing in the larger scheme of things.  Really wierd.
I enjoyed the first three books and found it hard to put them down. The last two are crap in comparison and I think we have another writer just padding the coffers. Remember Steven Kings "The Gunslinger" series. The last book of that series was a major disappointment also. I am not even looking forward to the next release, if there is one, as most of the interesting characters have already been killed off. I don't really see the reason for spending the time to meet a new group of second rate characters as this series progresses into what would be better used as toilet paper.
Time to put this series out of its misery.  I will not be finishing or recommending it to friends.  My friends and I aren't even intersted in the HBO series. Why should we?  We've read the books & already understand that the story goes into an abyss after the third book.  Why invest more time on the never ending HBO crawl with dragons.
Others have probably made the same points I'm going to write, so I'll keep it short. Long, lacks direction. A few good bits, but it's mostly just wanting to know how the story will progress that keeps you reading. And it fails to do that much. Martin has picked up a habit of killing off the nice characters and the rest are just milling about aimlessly. Plenty of new minor characters that don't do much for the main storyline, but then I'm starting to wonder if there is a main storyline anymore. I think it's becoming increasingly difficult to salvage the story. It's almost ground to a standstill and most of the remaining characters and worth caring for. If Martin does manage to breathe new life into the series I doubt he'll finish before he pulls a Jordan. Terrible shame, it had so much promise.
I expected to enjoy this book, and kept doggedly reading along in hopes a plot line which made sense would appear and pull the story together.  It never did. It may be my fault as I did not read the earlier stories in this series. Perhaps I'm out of line thinking that a book should stand alone.  This one starts in the middle of events and ends in the middle of events without resolving anything.  It jumps from character to character, keeping the more unpleasant ones alive and suddenly killing off those which the reader has come to care about, to no particular benefit to the storyline.  I wasted quite a few hours reading this book thinking it would surely improve.  Wrong.  The author has talent but needs to turn his work over to an editor who knows how to weave a tale.
I went from checking the book shops and sites for years to get the next installment. I waited so long that I had to be refreshed as to the characters.  Finally this book came along and it was such a disappointment that if it takes him 20 years to produce another it won't bother me. What a drag this volume was. A struggle to read.  I am not sure I even recognized some of the characters. A self absorbed effort from an author who appears to be dragging this out interminably.
How could an author achieve so little with 1000 pages, it's maddening. And forgive me for this bit of a spoiler but it is frustrating when the good charachters continue to get killed off while the evil characters thrive. I do not know if I can make my way through another book.
This book is neither illuminated nor illustrated!
I am very disappointed with this book. There is a lot of description of events but no real advancement of the story line. This is the 5th book I've read. How many more do I have to read before anything of significance happens? Please at least throw me a bone with the next book or I'm done with this series.
After picking up and putting this book down for over 2 months, I've finally finished ADWD. Why did I keep putting it down you ask? I WAS BORED!!!! Wow...all the repeating of stories and the long drawn out descriptions of what's happening to characters that we don't care about. I skipped through so many chapters. This book could have been written in about 250 pages and it still wouldn't have gone anywhere.  I gave it two stars because I still plan on reading the rest of the series...ONLY so I can know what happened to the characters that matter; Arya, Jon, Tyrion, Bran, Rickon (where the hell is he?..haven't seen him in like 2500 pages!), Catelyn, Sansa, Cersei, Jaime, Dany and all the wolves that were given such important places but for the most part have disappeared.  I only just started reading this series last summer, so I'm glad I wasn't one of the poor saps that read these books from the first time published and have had to wait years for the next book. Although, I guess I'm one of those saps from this point on. *sigh*
This review is of the particular edition, not the wonderful classic novel.  The type face of this edition is so small that I will not be giving it as a holiday present to an 11 year old girl. I thought that a trade size paperback would be suitable for a child, but it is not. I find it barely readable and will be returning it.
I've read through all the books in this series and just finished this last one.  I have had this book for over 6 months since I had to keep putting it down and forcing myself to just finish the thing.  George you were on your way to being one of my favorite authors but with this last book I am so disappointed in the ending.  The last book really let me down.
I enjoyed the first three books. There were some really interesting characters and twists and turns. I don't know if dementure set in or what but Martin lost the plot in books 4 and 5, literally. It kind of reminded me of Anne Rice novels from the 80s. Way too much detail and side plots that were frankly boring and irrelavant. Meanwhile the really interesting plots moved at a snails pace.  I am able to read boring documents - believe me - but this was just too much. I barely read half of it and I won't be buying the last book I don't think. Such a waste as there were some exciting stories building. He just made it too complicated and not in a good way. In an extrecutiating way. There should have only been 4 books in the series total, with all the crap removed.
The first two chapter were somewhat interesting, but after that it got very bland.  It was like the author was trying to get somewhere, but was killing off all the main character and left you without any sense as to what just happened.  Did I fall asleep and just passed all the intigue and why he was going the way he went.  It left me high and dry without any reason. Very disappointing, after reading the first 4 books that were so great, now this one horrible.
I want to start off by saying that i thoroughly enjoyed the first 4 books-yes, i said 4, in the series. With that being said, I want to say that this book did not remotely feel like one of Martin's books. I think that other readers will agree with me when I say that this book did not even feel like the previous 4 novels. ADWD disappointed me in the fact that it did not even have the Martinesque feel that the previous novels had. 2.5 stars, but not deserving of the curve.
I was looking forward to reading this book having just finished the first four. I was looking forward to a culmination of plot lines, some definitive outcomes, if not the final outcome for the series. However what i got was waffle from characters known and unknown. It feels like the author has no idea where the story is going and for over 1000 pages long it did not go very far toward any kind of outcome. I don't think i will be purchasing book 6 and my investment in this series has come to an end.
I have been waiting impatiently for this book for a LONG time, but I feel like it is taking me twice as long as I spent waiting just to plow through this book.  The characters are still very interesting, but not a lot is happening in Dance of Dragons.  I'm about 85% of the way through the book, but the story line hasn't been advanced by much at all, and I'm pretty sure that this series can't be concluded without a lot more books, if they are all going to be this slow.  And, sorry, Mr. Martin, I don't want to wait as long as it would take for you to write that many more books!  Also, the book has a lot of typos - especially the word "then" when "than" should have been used.  Sloppy editing, but I'm pretty sure it wouldn't have been so irritating if I had been less bored.
After watching the fascinating first season of the HBO show I devoured all the books. Was incredibly let-down by a Feast For Crows, and while Dance is a little better it's not saying much. The book is too long and the worst part is that for most of it is just too boring.  I understand Martin wanting to create an expansive and "realistic" world but he has lost his way and keeps on introducing new characters again and again. Especially when it comes to Dany's storyline there are so many new characters (not to mention the "older" ones are forgettable enough) that I couldn't keep track of who did what. He also keeps introducing new characters for the other storylines - Martin needs to focus a lot more.  Skip the 4th and 5th books and wait for the TV show seasons instead. I think the TV producers will be able to scale back on all the extraneous stuff and focus more.
I greatly enjoyed GRRM first 3 books.  I even enjoyed A Feast for Crows more or less.  I was yearning for some action and/or resolution in this book.  I thought for sure we'd see the dragons finally controlled and used by Dany- nope.  Maybe Jon Snow would come into his own somehow - House Stark or lead the Watch against the wights- nope.  Tyrion would do something of consequence- nope just wander around.  There was lots of wandering around and not much action or resolution.  There was a lot of rape and flaying though.  George, I got it already.  Ramsey Snow/Bolton is evil!  Bottom line is it is a drawn out book with some interesting threads but nothing gets resolved. You are left wanting much and more.  I guess I'll just have to wait another 5 years and hope GRRM closes the story lines (or one of them) in the next book.
I won't repeat what the thousands of reviews have already mentioned, other than my personal displeasure with the outcome of book 5, especially after having to endure book 4.
The reviews already posted cover the main issues.  I am giving the book two stars instead of one for the strength of the writing- creating vivid scenes.  The book is too long for the amount of plot development that takes place and dwells too much on ideas that have been introduced and fleshed out already.  While the promise of the early books lingers, as a stand alone book A Dance with Dragons is tiresome.
His books get longer and longer but have less depth, and story. You'll get entire pages dedicated to family members they will never mention again. It's like reading early chapters of the Bible... and Mzdahr, begat Lothar, who begat Hizdahr, whose second uncle was a great man of the fishing provincies and had three brothers named.... WHO CARES!!!!  I find myself skipping entire pages. He does the same thing with descriptions of places, explaining every wall in a room, Ok I get it,flesh out your story. Don't write a movie, including screenplay, and set design all in one. Needs to seriously learn how to edit out the crap or the for the next book I will only be reading the Cliff's Notes version.
I would recommend this book for a 10 or 12 year old girl who likes to read the classics.  I remember reading it then and I loved it.  Now at age 80, not so much.  Marilyn Whyte
Has the distinct feel of a steam locomotive that is running out of steam.  It is definitely not on a par with the previous volumes in the series.
If the author really wrote this book by splitting out half of the characters from the earlier book, wonder why it took him so long to publish this one!  There are more cliffhangers in this book than in the entire season lineup of a TV channels suspense thrillers.  Problem is that you will probably have to wait for another 5 years to find out what happened.  Even cliffhangers from the previous book are not resolved.  I wish I did not have to ready this book, but I just had to considering the amount of time that I had invested in the previous 4.  And the fact does remain, that I really wanted to know what happens to the characters that the author has done such a good job creating.  It's just sad that one doesn't actually get to find out what happened, since he just keeps adding new twists and story lines without ever bothering to resolve the existing ones.  God knows I will have to read the sixth one when it comes out too, clearly Mr Martin has got down to a fine art the way to milk his customers.
Too many characters, too many pages, too much of nothing!  The first three titles in the series were outstanding.  A combination of books four and five minus at least a half dozen characters and some serious editing would have made one good novel. One can only hope that Martin will read the negative reviews, pick up the pace of the plot and drop all the superfluous material in the next Song of Ice and Fire book.
There isn't much I could add that hasn't already been said by other disappointed readers.  In summation: Disappointed; will not be buying anymore in this series.
Major disappointment.  I suffered through book 4, thinking that book 5 would FINALLY resolve the story lines.  No luck!  Nothing is resolved.  You'll still have all the same questions in your mind that you had at the beginning of the book.  You'll just be caring a lot less if you ever find out.  Now I know why HBO is talking about deviating from the storyline in the books.
I had a hard time figuring out if i was still reading the same author. The book made no sense. I believe GRRM is a little to full of himself. He is taking to long between books and I believe enjoys all the anguish this causes. I will not buy anymore of his books as he is just a wast of money. If you are thinking about buying this book just wait and it should be available at the library for free.
Been waiting for this book to come out.  Quite disappointing to say the least.  Just couldn't get into the book after several chapters.  I was eagerly anticipating this release, so I bought both the hardback and kindle version---what a waste of $$$.  It was slow reading and got bored easily...skipped through after several chapters and found that I only got into Brans and Daenerys' chapters.  Overall, i was disappointed.
I've loved every one of Martin's preceding books in this series.  Unfortunately, book five falls short of the excellence we've come to expect from the author.  Reading this book has been like talking to my mother-in-law on the phone.  That is to say, Martin goes on and on, in excruciating detail, about people and situations that have no apparent bearing on the real story.  This book is a long, tedious read.  I have yet to finish it, and I started it almost two months ago.  For an avid reader, that should speak volumes!  I hope that he brings the story back around in book six and that it's not another disappointment.
I was blown away by the first few books, amazed with the scope, pleased or disgusted by the characters in turn, but the last two books I found to be slower and slower and not a little annoying in the way that chapters were pulled out of book four to make book five.  Do us and yourself a favor George...trim the fat, move the story along and give us more of what you're great at and stop with the run on lukewarm extremely fragmented glop that this has become.  My recommendation to those looking to buy...don't bother until the series has been completed.
The series started great, but its like he is trying to serve 2 beers to 20 people.  It is now just a watered down story with a couple interesting story arcs.
i don't know why i continue reading this series. all this book consisted of was characters moving but not getting anywhere, nothing gets accomplished and all the good characters die in the end. actually thats the story of the whole series. continually disappointing.
A disapointment.  At ths rate these stories will never be resolved.  Even in real life the good guys manage to survive sometimes.  I do not understand the complex characters that just are eliminated.  The reader does expect some resolution after reading 4 or 5 books.
My mom grew up with these stories so I expected them to be enchanting. Honestly it was.... very vanilla and boring. Everyone has oopsies that turn out as lovely little lessons. And all the sisters are different but manage to get along. It was too sweet for my taste, even as a children's story. Where are the lesson?! The strife?!
I expected more drama, resolution, not to mention DRAGONS, after spending a long time reading (and enjoying) the first four volumes.  Yes, Good Guys die unexpectedly, Bad Guys turn out to be decent, no one gets ahead for being Good or Bad, etc., and in the long run, the book ends with no message except the randomness of life.  Disappointing book and one that leaves many things open to yet more sequels.
This read is somewhat unsatisfying, when compared to the first 3 novels in the series.  This book took 6 years to write, which indicates that R.R. may have lost some interest in this project, and it shows in some of the writing.  Let me say though, in fairness, that despite the general negativity, it was still good to be re-acquainted once more with the characters and world of Ice and Fire.  On the general writing however, some appears to have been done in haste, and some appears to have been written with the screen-play in mind.  Unfortunately, the writing is no longer high-art, but more like fantasy pulp-fiction.  Some of the character motivations are a little bewildering, as is the meandering plot in parts, and I personally do not greatly enthuse to writing that attempts to iterate sounds (or other senses), such as "whooosh....whoosh....whooosh..." to describe a dragon flying.  I am not sure where Ice and Fire can go from here. I expect the motivation for the next book may come when (or if) the television series reaches book 6.
At the end of this book, I just kind of powered through to get to the end.  This story is very boring and I just wish we could get the story through to the end.  So many sidesteps and too much thinking, should I go left or right, or stay here.  Come on GRRM, train the damn dragons, mount up and get it going.  Kill all the bad people and let good prevail.
At this point I'd suggest most readers new to the series stop after book three.  If book 6, 7,8,12 manage to move the plot forward, then I'd suggest pushing through 4 and 5 to get there. Too many characters, too little plot development.  Without plot its difficult to have drama.  Without drama, tension, release, what's the point?
I'm not going to go off on a 500 word essay on this book. I'll sum it up, nothing really happens 1100 pages could have been 400 pages of exciting story.  No real plot lines get worked out.  Few questions answered, many more left me with a bad taste in my mouth.  I waited 5 years for this?  Now how long will we have to wait, I don't think GRRM has any idea how to get this (what appears to be) out of control story back in line.  It's classic Jordan, the story has gotten bigger than the Author.  50/50 it ever gets finished before the fat bastard takes a dirt nap.
I loved the first 3 books.  The fourth was a little slower paced, but I still enjoyed it.  I had a hard time finishing this one.  It was just too slow.  Books 4 & 5 combined would have made a decent 500 page book.  I am done with this series.
I did not get the part where it becomes boring right after a very interesting start. The characters were kinda lame and very feeble. This is very far from what I expected in his books.
I loved the first three books in this series but when I got to the fourth and fifth books the layout and narrative had completely changed - it's as if I'm reading something written from a completely different author. The story line takes forever and is very hard to get into which is totally different from the first three books in the series. I want to know how it ends but I don't think I'll be able to suffer through another boring book like the last two... Maybe I'll just wait for HBO...
This edition is abundant with typos!  With an 8-year-old daughter trying to read this, having so many spelling, grammar, and vocabulary mistakes is not ideal.
The first three books were great.  The fourth  one was lacking and I had hoped that this fifth one would redeem the fourth book by being as good as the first three- it did not.  Describing things, places, men that have been described by the author before a hundred times- gets old.  The descriptions take me nowhere that I haven't already been or want to go.  Entire chapters about people that I don't care about, or that I didn't come to like as well as the characters who've been conveniently killed so things will become a little more simple, these chapters pretty much are worth skipping or browsing- looking for quotation marks and key words that may have something to do with someone who is interesting. Anyway, if there are going to be seven of these books, I guess that I can wait five years for the next one and I'll probably buy it and read it.  I read that Robert Jordan series and that was trying.  There's always Moby Dick, I haven't read that in a while.
I expected much and more from this book, but I was disappointed at every chapter. Was seriously mad that the stories do not lead to anything or anywhere, I expected something majestic to happen, yet it never did. Major sink, and disappointment.
I have never been so disappointed and angery, after reading this entire series,  as when I was served up this crappy ending. The author has cheated his readers.
If you are in the mood for something fresh and/or exciting and/or immersive, this book is not it. At times, this book seemed almost contrived and skin-deep with padding out chapters and positioning characters for future plot developments.  I read SF and fantasy books voraciously and generally find it easy to get immersed in the story. For some reason, with this one, reading chapters was like channel-flipping through TV shows and never quite finding one to immerse you.  I was left wondering quite often why I was reading about such uneventful minutiae and then the chapter would end. With each new chapter I kept hoping for something to come along and draw me in but that never really happened.  Books 1-3 were tremendous and very enjoyable for me -- I hope Martin can dig deeper for the next book and rekindle that past "magic" -- this one was just not up to par.
Not the reknowned classic I was expecting and entirely too long!!!  I don't think I could've heard more preaching than this book gave.
All the other 2-3 star reviews say it perfectly; this book is a whole lot of nothing. A big disappointment. I want my time back.
I am not impressed with this book.  I have zipped through the other books in days...this one has taken me forever to get through.  I won't stop reading the series...but this is not my favorite book.
On the back cover of the book a journalist states that Martin is the closest thing America has to Tolkien.  While Tolkien's work will be cherished by readers for years to come, this series has little chance of being a book of all time. It has nothing of the epic nature of the LOTR--except its length.  A better comparison of this work would be with the "Wheel of Time" series. Neither brings the story to any resolution at any point. This, to this reader, is the most frustrating element of this series in an often frustrating read.  Martin stated he would finish the series at book 4; book 4 stretched on in to book 5. Book 5, however, is not a conclusion. The story just stops. It doesn't take a prophet to see that more books will be coming from Martin in this series. I will make a personal prophetic utterance at this point: Though I will read several hundreds of books before I leave this mortal coil, another book in the Song of Ice and Fire series will not be one of them.
Ok, so I have now read all five of the "Ice and Fire" series and can say that I will not be picking up the sixth when/if it ever comes out. The first three books are some of my favorite titles of all time. A Clash of Kings is just all around a great story with great character. And the next was good, but you could tell it was beginning to fall off. And then you get to A Feast for Crows where the whole series falls apart. You read about a bunch of character you don't care about and wonder "Where the hell is Jon and Tyrion!" Well you finally get them back in this book, but you will be very disappointed with these characters. The book in whole just never catches steam. You read about people walking, and thinking about doing something, and sitting in rooms with each other talking about doing something and then by the end, none of it happens. I know no review will make someone who has read all the books stop them from reading this one  I read a ton saying do not read this and look at me) but i figured I'd spare you the 15 bucks and tell you you are not missing anything.
Most of my beefs with this have been aired here.  This author was brilliant over the 1st four books - what happened?  How could he go from that to books 5 and 6?  Makes me thing he either has hired ghost writers or someone milli vanill-ied 1-4.  Anyone agree? The difference is that stark. Wish he'd go back to the mindset he was in back then.  I quit.
This book is a short novella masquerading as a bloated tome.  It desperately needs harsh and impartial editing.  Even if you like the series, you can skip this one in favor of reading the spoilers in the reviews here.  Or perhaps just read the last 150 pages to get the cliffhangers, but they aren't really cliffhangers since their outcomes have been so heavily foreshadowed you know what will happen.
I have to agree with many of the others the 5 star reviews for this book can not be true.  The first three books were fantastic page turners with new surprising twists. The last two books seem to be nothing, but money grabs.  They have gotten longer and longer and nothing note worthy has really happened that couldn't have been done better in a shorter more concise book. G.R.R.M really needs to wrap up the story already and be done with it.  Most of his "surprises" of ending chapters on cliff hangers and killing and un-killing characters are just proving to be pointless and have no meaning to the overall story. The gimmick of this book taking place the same time as the last book leaves you right where you started 3K pages ago... no where.  He did a recent interview where he was disappointed in the show "LOST" as it ended poorly and didn't have any direction.  Interesting he has fallen into the same trap.  It seems fairly obvious he doesn't have any plan on how to finish up the series.
I loved the first three books, anxiously awaited the 'final' book, A Feast for Crows' to only be met with an apology from the author about needing to split the final book in to two parts ... and a plea from the author to please be patient.  And to be honest, A Feast for Crows was not a great book.  I waited faithfully for FIVE YEARS to finally get the end to a story that had started out so well ...  Only to be met with yet another disappointing book that moves the story no where.  I will not repeat in detail what others have already stated, but only say this book is a thousand pages of pointlessness.  The story goes nowhere.  And now we must wait, who only knows how long, for yet another installment that may or may not finally wrap up the story line.  I must say I am very disappointed that Mr. Martin seems to being going down the path of greed and squeezing out as many book sales as he can before finally giving us the ending promised years and two books ago.
I, too, loved the first three books of the series, then stumbled a bit during A Feast for Crows, due in part to overly gory descriptions that went on for pages. But the story has become totally bogged down in A Dance with Dragons. What happened to the page-turner quality of this series? The characters we once cared about now seem flat and horribly existential. It's like the editors didn't have the guts to cut out boring, superfluous parts that drag down the story line. And they forgot to add some meaning and life back into the main characters. Tyrion is the only character who remains interesting, but his travels (hundreds of pages-worth) are not. This book should have been shortened to about 300 pages, instead of the 959 we're expected to slog through.
Time magazine is supposed to put Martin on a par with Tolkien.  He's not even close.  If one wants to read of the vile and wicked continually triumphing and the good and righteous forever flaming in defeat and death, this is for you. For me, life is too short to spend it reading material like this with no hope of victory for the good. Martin weaves a score of characters into a huge, wide-ranging tapestry, but why do the evil always get the upper hand?  I won't be reading any more of this.
If this book could have been edited back a couple of hundred pages and a major plot climax added (there are none), it might have been an interesting story.
I don't remember reading a 700 page book as a young reader. I must have read the children's library version which I would certainly advise anyone to read because this one is WAY too long. Baring in mind that it was written 150 years ago it is still too preachy for words.
I hardly ever write a book review after I have read it but because this book was such a disappointment, I must say this was by far the worst book of the series. After waiting several years for what I thought was going to be the best and final book, I was terribly let down. If I did not buy this book for my ipad it would already be back on Amazon for resale. Unfortunately I can never get the time back that it took me to read.
Having a laugh reading the reviews, now that I just finished the book. I couldn't agree more with the overall view of disappointment and frustration. I was hooked on the series because of the great writing and characters. Really wanted to find out what happened to EVERYONE in the story.....feel very let down. In my mind the story is over. I will not be reading the next book....if there is one!
After waiting so long for this book, I was bored to death.  I kept waiting and hoping the story would pick up. In A Feast For Crows it got interesting towards the middle of the book but this book never got interesting.  I had to force myself to read it hoping it would get better.  When the next book in the series comes out, I'll wait for the reviews before I buy it.
A Trudge for Travelers would have been a more appropriate title, since so much of this book centers around the long, boring travels of its characters. ADWD suffers from poor editing; there is a lot of stalling, very little plot advancement and characters get bogged down, so much so that reading becomes tedious (One gets the impression that writing it may have also been an exercise in drudgery). There are some good parts (chapters with Bran, Arya, Drogon and Theon) though they are few and far between, and just how some of them tie in with the rest of the story remains to be seen. I am a huge fan of GRRM and hope that he can get the series back on track. He has the in-enviable, mammoth task of bringing the story to a conclusion, while tying up storylines and coordinating timelines. I hope that he rediscovers his mojo and also enlist the help of good editors.
Roy Dotrice changed Danny's voice other female characters....its horrible.  Without consistency, there is no reason to bring Dotrice back as narrator for any future books.  Random House Editor Team....where were you on this one?  I wish someone would pay me for doing nothing useful!!  I will be sending in my resume promptly...always wanted a cush job.
I'll keep this short, as the top-rated 2 star review perfectly summarizes my thoughts on this book. This book was a depressing read. There was no energy, no sense of momentum and intrigue that carried books 1-3. Even though all our "favorite" POVs are back, they seem inexplicably boring, almost as if the author has no idea what direction these characters should go. In the end, George tries to tie things up with more cliffhangers and tacked-on suspense, but tat that point the damage is done.  I award this book 2 stars, and GRR is no longer on my "must buy" list. In my mind, perhaps the series is best left at book 3...if the last 2 have been any indication, I don't want to stick around to see how things unfold.
Considering that I spent the entire summer reading the entire series, and yes, I was hooked and pulled in, but what the???? I just finished book five and I am seriously disappointed. I get it, yes, many of our beloved characters die, but for those that survived, what's to come of them? Will Dany make her way to King's Landing and take the throne? What will come of Bran? And what happened to Osha and Ricken? And the amazing Tyrion and Jaime. All of the living characters are spread across the many leagues and just left hanging. I have never in my 45 years of reading, ever had this experience--it's as if I was mid-way through a great story, and it abruptly ended. Mr. Martin, if you are a decent, honorable writer, you will give us book six and please, I beg you, take your time. It will be worth the wait to see what is to come of all of these characters.
Good
I mean really, do we need an explicit sex scene or reference every other chapter?  George's writing has deteriorated to a bizarre medieval sex fantasy.  There is more carnal knowledge in the work than in his entire forst several books combined!  The story line takes place concurrently with the previous work.  We trace Tyrion at first through the expanded eastern lands on a journey to connect with the Dragon Queen.  After several bizarre hand offs, we are left to find him playing a stooge in front of the conquered city of Meereen.  The chapters are tightly written and the internal dialogue of characters is solid.  Theon Greyjoy, Jon Snow and Tyrion are particulalry well fleshed out.  The problem is that Martin seems to turn to extreme profanity, sexual predation and abusive circumstances in his scenes.  This becomes almost ridiculous throughout the book.  A perfect example is the scene in which Ramsay Bolton confronts his new bride in the presnce of the captured and beaten Greyjoy.  Suffice to say that the descriptive natur eof that scene is wholly unnecessary to the plot, establishing Greyjoy's subservience, Jeyne's victimization or the sheer insanity of Bolton.  I am certain this is Mrtin's way of getting the next miniseries installment onto the Playboy channel instead of HBO.
What I liked most about the first three books was the pacing.  The pacing and repetitiveness of this book was really disappointing. I agree with most of the previous reviews. Sad to say, I couldn't finish this:(
The book was a smaller hard cover version without the lifted cover. The print runs right to the very bottom of the page with no margin. I had no idea this was even an option as all others books I have seen is full sized copies with legible margins. I feel like I got shanked as I would have spent more money on a regular copy.  By the way I am a HUGE fan of martin's for many many years
I have both the Kindle version and hardback for a class..  The Kindle does not include the introductory portion with the background to the theater and the time period.  Nor does it contain footnotes or definitions to help a student.  The hardback has no footnotes which is a great handicap to those not familiar with Shakespeare.  I would NOT recommend for a beginner in Shakespeare.
Very poor text formatting. Text the Sonnets in one line. It's impossible to read. It is unclear where one stanza ends and where the next begins. It's poetry, after all. Very, very bad.
I am a fan of the series or I wouldn't have made it through five books, but by the fourth book (and maybe even the third) my brain was scrambled from all of the new characters. I thought that maybe there was a purpose for this and all would come together in the end, but NOOOOO, not at all.   What was the purpose of bringing in all of these new characters and not tying them into the ending? The characters that we want to know about are neglected while we read pages and pages about others that we aren't at all invested in. It felt to me like the new characters were there to drag out the story line, making what could have been a great trilogy into a five book jungle of confusion.  After reading the reviews, I was hesitant to buy this one but I wanted to find out what happened. It took me a long time to finish reading it, and now I feel that I wasted my time.  Don't get me wrong, I think Martin is a brilliant writer. I just don't think that this one did him justice.
Seriously? For an author who (I thought) usurps Tolkien, this is a really poor work. Lots of moving pieces around and not much action. The thing that really attracted me about Martin's first books was the sense of danger, the overwhelming fear, the classic "people are too stupid/blind to know when things are about to implode," etc. This book was just tiring. Do I recommend you read it? Yes - it's too important and good (still) a series to disregard but wow, this is really making us work. The last one or two better rock or it's going to be an incredible disappointment. Little hint, George - needs to be a little more bloodshed, a little more violence, a little more revenge, a little more tension (I can't believe I'm saying this to Tolkien, er, Martin).
First let me state that I am a big fan of the series but am very disappointed in the direction the last 2 books have taken. I'm 3/4 through this book and have completely lost interest and lost track of half the characters. Most of the new characters are shallow and could easily have been left out. So far, most of the original characters are barely mentioned or not even mentioned at all. Mr Martin, get back to the basics of your original book, please.
I finally finished this book. I am so disapponited in this and the last book. The first three books were great. If there is another book I will wait to buy it after I have read the reviews. This book dragged from the begining. I don't feel like he new were it was going. Cant put into words how let down I feel. Buyers beware.
I find this version very difficult to navigate.
I thought this was the complete works. I should have looked at the fine print because it was only the sonnets and all's well that ends well...
It seems as if Mr. Martin has lost his passion for this series. The train is off the tracks and it is going to take a lot of that same magic from books 1-3 to return this project to must-read status. Hoping for more on the next go round.
This was not George R.R. Martin's best work. This was not an adventure, this was a journey. Unfortunately, the journey went nowhere. Two-thirds of the book was about half a dozen characters making their way to Daenerys and her dragons. Once they arrived, nothing happens. The other third of the book is filled with profanity and references about sex. Most of the characters in the Dance With Dragons are minor characters that you don't care about and the ones you do care about, like Jon Snow and Tyrion, do nothing. In the middle of the book Martin begins to have some interesting side plots but they never develop. Jaime and Davos just disappear with no mention of where they went. It also seems to be a Song of Ice and Fire theme that no one stays dead. I'm beginning to lose my trust in the author. All in all, I think Martin made his world too big. It's not fun reading a thousand pages of people traveling. I'm sure I will read the next book when and if it comes out, but A Dance With Dragons is dead to me. This one was for the money, not for the fans or for the story. See you in another six years, Westeros.
This book wasn't nearly as good as the first ones. I was anxiously awaiting it's release and am so disappointed. Nothing is resolved in fact there's just more characters wandering around and getting nothing done. Ugh. Wake me up when it's over.
I enjoyed the first three books of the series, but the last two left me feeling cheated and sorry that I had ever started reading A Song of Ice and Fire.  I feel like Martin could have cut out a lot of pointless material and given us a satisfying trilogy with a real ending. Instead I wasted a lot of time and money as I slogged to the end hoping for resolution.  I have told my husband who has watched the TV series not to bother reading it.  The best thing I can say about the series as a whole is that the books had really good titles.  A Dance with Dragons was the worst of the series.  It goes round and round like water down a toilet bowl.  I kept thinking at least one story line would reach a satisfying conclusion, but, alas, it appears Mr. Martin just gave up.  Normally, when I read a series that I enjoy, I seek out everything else that author has written.  Even though I have heard good things about Martin's earlier work, this series has left me with no desire to investigate.
I'll be quick about this.  Is it a fun read?  In some ways, yes.  On a page-by-page basis, Martin is as good an author as you're likely to ever find in this genre.  HOWEVER.  Books, and this may be even more true for long serial stories, need a cohesive structure that allows the storyline to develop, to grow, and then to eventually reach climax and resolution.  It's very similar to music composition.  Readers can only absorb so many plot threads and deepening complexities and left turns into new sub-plots before the work becomes a tiresome mess.  Martin has crossed that line.  He may be able to salvage this series, but it will mean getting back on track and starting to bring the critical plot threads together into some semblance of a cohesive story arc that builds momentum towards a finish.  And it doesn't matter to me how many books that takes.  But this reader will not be purchasing another in this series without some assurance that Martin is willing and capable of delivering the goods.
I went through the first three books in quick succession, but the 4th really dragged on and on.  This was just long for the sake of... being long.  And %14.99 for a kindle book?  That's just plainly a rip-off.  I'd tell you to wait for the HBO miniseries, but frankly I don't think the HBO version will make it this far through the series.  JRR Tolkien knew how to hold the readers' interest, and more importantly, when and how to end a story.
The table of contents is poorly designed. I am unable to understand where a new story begins. I just scan until I find a familiar scene.
I was highly anticipating this book but unfortunately i agree with many of the other reviews. I rarely page skim but i couldn't help but skip through some as slow as the book moved.  On George's website he mentioned at one time before the book came out that he was struggling with the direction of the book and it is completely obvious in many of the plots.  Daenerys, Tyrion, and Jon Snow stories all drag on as if George was trying to stall actually defining a direction for them to take.  Other subplots thrown in to the mix like Bran, Davos, Jaime, and Arya were so short and tranpsired very little all they accomplish is frustration on part of the reader.  In the end this book sets up the potential for some intersting stories but hopefully George can cut out the fluff and wandering and get back to the excitement he created in previous books.  The book is worth reading just on hopes that the next will be better, but be prepared to do some page skimming to make things go faster.
OK, so the title is just a little exaggerated.  The dragons are prominent in 2, maybe 3 chapters of the whole book.  After the build-up till now, you'd think that "A Dance with Dragons" would be mostly focused on Dany and her awesome dragons - right?  Well, the big event in this book, at least where the dragons are concerned, is that there is a rumor that maybe one of them ate some sheep and a kid on a farm.  That's it.  OK, right near the end one dragon does one thing that I won't spoil for you but... is completely boring and almost pointless.  There were two good chapters in the book.  In one you are led to believe that we are finally going to have a payback version of the "Red Wedding."  But...  nah.  Doesn't happen.  In the other....  near the end you have Jon beginning to do exactly what we'd LOVE to see him do, finally, and then...  well let me just say that the best chapter in this book turns itself completely around backwards in the last 2-3 sentences.  Probably the most important thing that happens in this book.  Or did it?  Well, that is one reason to buy the next one anyway...  And there isn't nearly enough Arya!
Was not as good as first six books. Seem like done in a hurry lots of good charaters the evil one left and lots of situations left dangeling. I feel it did not measure up to first six books which where so riviting and good. My husban is haveing eye surgery by the Va they already blind him in his left. He has to have surgery on his right  iguess hes afraid they are going to complete the job  but he want to read this book beforit was done and if it turns out its the last book he can read it just wasent what he wanted if its the last .Itjust was a jumble and disappointment.
As others have said - very disappointing for such a long wait.  As is often the case with these authors who become wildly successful, their editors have less say about what needs to come out.  This book could have been cut in half.
First 2 books in this series were fantastic.  They were complex with interesting characters.  The characters later were revealed to have believable reasons for their choices.  No one thinks that they are evil.  Its all about perspective.  In the foreward for the fourth book, the author stated that he had too much material and was splitting the book.  That the fourth book was about the lesser characters.  The fifth book covers roughly the same time period as the fourth, but showcases the more popular characters.  A Dance With Dragons is too long.  There are too many characters.  There are too many people mentioned in passing.  There are interminable pages and pages of description and handwringing introspection.  I was skimming and skipping by page 100.  What a huge disappointment.  It is the authors creation and he might revel in it, but I don't enjoy it anymore.  I WOULD genuinely like to know what happens to the characters.  I just don't think that I care enough to be the 6th book and the 7th book and probably an eighth book.  Just stop, man, just stop.
Didn't realize it was a large sized book
Looked forward to this for many years.  Now that I have started it I am not sure I will go to the end.  This is because I don't think anything will happen.  In the first 500 pages we have not gotten anywhere.  Nothing looks to be close to resolution.  Characters are either struting in place or wandering aimlessly.  I can put up with Dave Weber's data dumps because you know that something will happen by the end of the book.  After the previous book I had my doubts we would get any answers.  Now I am almost sure that we will be wondering we this book was written when we finished it.
Having now finished reading all five volumes of A Song of Ice and Fire, I find myself frustrated, like many others, at the glacial pace (how ironically appropriate) of the plot development, or at least any significant plot development.  For make no mistake, George Martin has a unbridled penchant for weaving interminable plot expansion  with infinite character development until your ready to scream "Enough!"  Yet somehow it manages to hold your interest through five thousand some pages, though that interest in now being sorely tried as things drag on and on and on.  I am also beginning to tire of the horrific world Mr. Martin has created.  It appears to have no redeeming social, moral or other value other than titillating one's libido or vicariously satisfying one's blood lust.  It is next to impossible to really like or identify with any of the main characters with the possible exception of Jon Snow and Arya.  This contempt, or is it cynicism disguised as realism, certainly separates Martin from the likes of Tolkien and Brooks and most other fantasy writers of note.  It does work in the first three books, but is beginning to wear by volumes 4 and 5.  One begins to hope the dragons will level the whole fracking place!
Just read the first couple of chapters, it goes on exactly like that. I don't know why this book is still appreciated, seems like it could well be retired.
5 years was way too long to wait for A Dance With Dragons.  I'll give GRRM the benefit of the doubt that he knows what he's doing with the series that started out so promising; but only for one more book.  If the next is no better than Feast or Dance, I'll not read another.  Well, at least not in hardcover....  Compared to the first three in the series, this, well, sucks.  The only reason it's better than A Feast for Crows is that we don't have 30 new characters 3500 pages into the story.  But one can't help but wonder if Martin is as lost as Jordan became?  If so, he's taken what was the best series outside LOTR and turned it to so=so, hum drum mismash.  What a shame that would be.  GRRM, if you are reading this, please, please, please, get the story moving again.  Your fans have suffered through the last two, please don't make them regret their investment in Song.
The binder was torn.
I read alot of negative reviews of book 4 but found it pretty good so was looking forward to this installment.  Can't even begin to describe what a letdown this book is, George has preceded to kill main characters for no reason and left the parts with greatest potential to rot.  I read fantasy books for the magic and this one blows.  The best parts - ice creatures, dragons, and Bran finding the crow - are left as annoying sidelines that never live up to their potential.  Please save your money and check out from the library if you just have to see for yourself.
I love the story-- read when I was a kid and still love it-- a true classic. The two stars is a review for the Puffin in Bloom edition of the book. I really wish there was a way that Amazon could aggregate reviews based on the actual edition of the book. While the book cover is very pretty, the rest of the book is really pretty basic-- paper is basic (like paper used in slightly better paperback version), print is nothing special. The worst part is that while the story is all there, the language has been changed-- the Puffin in Bloom edition uses language that is much simpler than the original. So if you want the original language, choose another edition.  I will say that if you're looking for a basic book that is better than a paperback, this is it.
I'm so disappointed. I love great fantasy and GRRM is one of my favorite writers, but this is more like reading a text book with nothing but facts.  A Dance with Dragons is just not up to Martin's ability.
Exchanging this gigantic book for a normal sized copy.
This book was huge and a huge disappointment. I would rather have had individual books of Shakespeare's works. It is too heavy to handle.
Disappointed and returning it.  If  you like your page bottom notes, forget it.  THERE ARE NONE... zip, zero.  There is a glossary in the back with simple definitions. Play introductions are very basic, 3/4 of a page? I got a Richard II from the library, an Oxford single play, and it has a full and interesting introduction, page bottom notes, etc, etc.  Ardenish.  u get what u pay 4.  I have several other less expensive "budget collections" which provide the same as this.  My close reader group ranges from ancient collegiate legacy tomes (huge and heavy) to most basic paperbacks.  I'm sampling various editions and dodging established opinions, but its looking like Arden wins all round for the serious reader. I do like the Oxford single of R2, but don't see it available here. NOTE: after return within two days, in original shipping materials, unused, ext. I received only a $7 refund from Amazon.  First negative experience, but then first return. Now using the Oxford single play and it is working very well.
There's a masterpiece hidden within A Dance with Dragons. Sadly, it is VERY well hidden. The book contains some extremely well-written parts, which reminded me of the Martin's undisputed talent, but these are few, appear late in the book and lead to nothing. For most of the time reading this book felt like a chore, I kept reading in hope of some revelation or plot advancement.  Sadly, there are almost none to be found. While every page is laden with irellevant details about clothing, foods, tapestry and what-not, the plot itself hardly advances. The book ends without resolving any major plotline, and is full of cliffhangers which are either supposed to keep us waiting for the next installement, or reveal that GRRM does not know how to continue the series. Some of the most interesting charcters so far have been reduced to a shallow, indecisive and inactive shell of themselves.  In conclusion, I recommend reading the book - but only if you borrow it from a friend or a library.
I was under the impression that this was one book containing all 9 volumes of all of Shakespeare's work. Very misleading.
What a disappointment.  Went round and round wth out getting anywhere.  Not going to drag out my disappointment in a review Im too exausted from the book and glad Im done with it.
At this rate I think that GRRM with die before he finishes all these plots he is creating. Daenery's is just dragging on forever without going anywhere in this book. It's gotten aggrivating. He has dedicated many whole chapters to characters that you do not care about at all and that are  not furthering the plot anymore than if he had just lengthened another chapter and included it in that one.  I know that in his head GRRM had the entire history and geneology of this fanatasy world and he thinks its all relevant, but throwing out 500 names of ancestors and ancient histories in chapters makes it convoluted and somewhat boring. I think in 6 years when the next book comes out if its anything like this one I will just skim through to see what happens.
I'm not sure what happened here, but it sure took a long time to happen. I (mostly) loved all of the other books in this series and waited--waited years--for this volume. What a disappointment.  If you haven't read the other books in this series, DO NOT start with this book--you won't have a clue. Martin introduces characters one after another, and unless you know them from the earlier books, you'll be left shaking your head. But what really astounded me about this book was the way he introduced several characters and then they seemed to drop off the face of the planet; you never hear from them again. What's up with that?  While "Dragons" does have its moments, overall this book is a bore--and that's coming from someone who really loves the Fire and Ice series. It's obvious that the whole purpose of this book is to set up a sequel. I always thought that the purpose of a book like this was to entertain. It does that, after a fashion, but not very well.  Sadly, I have to wonder if Martin has lost interest in his creation.
This is the weirdest "paperback" I have ever purchased through Amazon. It is the size of a large workbook, and the inside is a blend of different fonts with an outer margin of only about 1/4 inch. It's definitely not something you'd want to buy to read curled up on the couch. It seems like a piece that was self-published by someone who grabbed the content online and wanted to make some money. Little Women is a lovely book. Choose a different version.
I've been reading this for 3 months. I'm trying to force myself to finish it. I don't get it, I guess.
I received this book a few weeks ago and it has been a very slow read. Unfortunately George R. R. Martin has decided to drag this series out the way Robert Jordan did with the Wheel of Time series. Like Jordan, Martin has decided in my opinion to use the word count rule rather than providing a well written book that keeps flowing the way the first two books did. I didn't read the Wheel of Time editions written by stand in authors so I will never know what Robert Jordan had in mind for an ending of the series, which is too bad because the series started out very good just like this one did.  If you have read A Feast of Crows there is really no need to read this book unless you are just looking for something to read as I was. I hope the author decides to end the series within the next two volumes or he will lose me as a reader. Overall in my opinion this book is a BIG SNORE.
We waited five years for this. The book is wildly self-indulgent. He has completely abandoned narrative for the tedious wrangling of a seemingly endless string of secondary characters. I am 850 pages into this novel and still hoping he might manage to pull something together. I guess I am still reading it because I am trying to redeem the massive amount of time I have already put into it. But unless something incredible happens in the last 100 pages, I will never pick up another book of his.
I'm astounded at how many amateur reviewers manage to hit the problem(s) square on the head, yet George RR Lucas seems to think EVERYONE else has it wrong.  Dance is a smidgen better than Feast.  If not for Theon, Dance wouldn't have even garnered that much faint praise.  THE BOTTOM LINE: I used to recommend this series.  I rushed out and bought Feast in hardback the first day it came out.  I waited several weeks to purchase Dance, and even then only the Kindle version.  If the next book averages 4 stars here on Amazon I may be tempted to give it one last chance--but I'm through being an agent of the word of mouth campaign; A Song of Ice and Fire has become embarrassing.  I ceased reading and recommending Robert Jordan at book 4.  And one last thing, I'm an adult who thinks "adult language," when overused, is childish.  In the first three books Martin's abrasive language lent the series gritty depth, but in Feast and Dance it feels more like a desperate ploy to maintain reader interest.  Shocking exposition won't defibrillate a stale story.
After discovering and devouring the first three novels in the series, which are phenomenal, I found that I was slogging through A Feast for Crows...  Somehow, I was hoping the Dance would somehow make up for AFFC lack and regain some of the magick of the first three novels.  It didn't.  I agree with many of the reviewers.  Additionally, I found the language was unduly stilted, the plot lost, frankly and all to obviously, all for the sake of generating continued sales as opposed to the sake of good storytelling.  GRRM needs kill the boy and find the writer in himself...that, or hire himself a strong editor who isn't afraid to actually edit.  Let's just say, I'm not holding my breath for the next novel to compensate for the last two grueling slogs.  I think I just may be done with GRRM...and winter's not even come yet.
I loved books 1-3 from this series, I couldn't put them down.  Book 4 was disappointing, but still okay, this book is by far the worst of the five books.  I only enjoyed the last three chapters.  In a play setting the stage is done when before the lights come up, in this book, it's like watching someone build and paint the background but not getting to enjoy the play.  All the plot development could have been taken care of in less than half the book.  I was very disappointed for such a long wait.
Thank goodness I didn't pay for this book.  I decided to read it as it was free and a classic.  I read 3/4 of the book until Laurie started to fall in love with Amy and I couldn't take it anymore.  I got as far as I did due to my fascination with other cultures and time periods.  However, the characters are one dimensional and predictable as are the plot twists.
I purchased the Kindle version of this book. I bought this particular version of the Complete Works because it comes with free audio, which is excellent to have handy when reading Shakespeare. However, the Table of Contents only exists for the first part of the book--the tragedies. To read a particular play that's a comedy or history (or any of the sonnets)--in other words, 75% of the book--you have to click onto the last "chapter" listed--Titus Andronicus--and page through to find the work you're looking for. What a HUGE pain! If you're buying this on Kindle, might want to find a better version, unless you plan to simply read the book cover to cover every time.
After reading 200 pages I was wondering where the story is going to take me. After 400 pages I thought I knew and started to raise my expectations. Then after plodding through another 300 pages I early wanted the book to come to an end. When it did come to an end on the last 10 pages I was left with a feeling that nothing had really happened and that I had read a book of short stories without endings. Was this just an interim book to cover up for a contract that GRRM had to fulfill? It certainly wasn't his best, in fact it was far from it. I read it because it was written by a great author. If there had been another name on the cover, then I would have closed the book half way through. If anything it was a waste of time!
I can't believe this book is still considered a classic.  The 19th century style of writing is off-putting"
The first two books were great, the third so-so, and then just way too many characters and unresolved plot lines exploded in the fourth and fifth books. Honestly, I find the grim, non-fairy tale characters very refreshing (bad things happen to good people), but I really wish an editor would have spent some decent time on the pacing and tightness of the main story.
The way this series started I was so excited. After finishing the last available series book, A Dance With Dragons, I'm just so disappointed.  As much as I really want to praise his work, his ingenuity and creativity... the slogging has become ever more difficult and pointless and there is no satisfying resolution to be had. I'm afraid GRRM doesn't see a way to tie all of it together. And worse, he really doesn't care. He's not writing for readers, he's writing for himself.
Honestly, I was a little bored by this, not for me, but can appreciate it for what it is.
I must admit that I eagerly awaited this book, the second half of a book about 8 years in the making.  I will not worry if it takes another 8 years to release the next one because I'm not sure I will bother listening/reading it.  I find myself fast forwarding thru sections just because nothing seems to be happening, just constant blah blah blah from about half of the characters.  Not even close to the quality of the other books in the series, it seems to he was more interested in just filling in 1000+ pages and finally completing something.  Update: I wrote the above when I was about halfway through the book, now, after I finally forced myself to complete it I will give you a hint.  Read the last 20% of the book, that sets everything up for the next book, which should be out in about 10 years.  A total waste of time until the very end...enjoy.
Your editor has lost all control over mr. Martin, you could have cut half this book out and still retained a cohesive plot.  So many characters that have so little to add to the novel, as a whole.  This was supposed to be the last book.  Now I'm forced to come to grips that mr. Martm is another Robert Jordan, endlessly cranking out fantasy novels like a factory prints toilet paper.  He's a very good writer but I'm done with this series.  I'll read the wiki after you finish... If you finish.
Some don't like that Martin spends so much time describing food, clothing, sigils, etc.  I confess, I like it.  I like the way he lets me see, smell, taste and feel the world of Westeros.  He has been called the American Tolkien.  After the first three books, I thought he might well be.  Then came A Feast for Crows.  And now this.  What a pathetic mess.  It has all been said by previous reviewers.  Elvis (Martin) has definitely left the building.  For whatever reason, it would seem that he is no longer motivated.  In the July 29th issue of Entertainment Weekly he was asked about the next book, the Winds of Winter.  He is supposed to have said that he has already made some headway and expects to return to it in January.  Translation to me, he hasn't done diddly.  It's too bad.  Such a promising franchise.  Seriously need to consider having somebody else wrap this up because I no longer hold much hope that he can or will.
Not a review (plenty of good ones already), just a quick reflection. In my opinion, I believe it would be better, instead of taking 5 years to write a book, to spend 4 of those years studying other authors and getting acquainted with the process of editing as shown in recent works of fantasy like 'American Gods' or other novels of that calibre. I have always found the label "American Tolkien" really misplaced. Now, it seems quite offensive...
Now we know why Martin waited so long: he had nothing to say.  Clearly the pressure--probably more compelling from us, his readers, than his publisher--drove him to edit down (more than write) the indifferent manuscript he's been shuffling around for the last five years or so, hoping he'd come upon a shaping destination along the way.  Didn't happen.  Maybe with more time he'd have found his muse, or whatever it is he lost, and produced a book that travelled over memorable territory.  You've got to believe that our impatience brought this out before he had a product up to the standards he'd maintained in the rest of the series.  It's a plotless hodgepodge of  people and events.  If he had his target fixed, he could have gotten rid of all this in two chapters.  Reading some of the interviews he's given, you sense that he's hoping this publication will unblock him.  So are we all.
I have spent over 5 years telling myself "don't worry, a Dance with Dragons will completely and utterly make up for Feast for Crows".  Um, not so much.  More characters introduced, more plodding and indecision, and it is finally 100% clear to me that GRRM just doesn't give a rats ass about finishing this series in a timely or motivated manner.  He has lost the love for the characters, the story, everything, and if you do not see this, you are blind.  Yeah, I gave it 2 stars because the first 3 books are so damned good that at least he had to have some good characterization that comes through into these last two sub-par books.  Tyrion is the wittiest, most fun character and yet he is so underutilized in this book that it borders on criminal.  I gotta hand it to GRRM though, he is on top of his game when it comes to describing the food they eat in the story.  I realize this is somewhat scathing, but this was a long time to wait for disappointment.
After devouring all of the earlier books in a single long weekend, I was completely primed for more. This book was very nearly a COMPLETE disappointment! I kept waiting for the OMG(!) parts of the book and they NEVER came. There were a few developments, but nothing that left me not being able to put down the book. For the very little that the story moved along, and considering how many years it took Martin to write this one, everything could have been wrapped up quite neatly in less than 500 pages. I can't tell you how many pages of blather I skipped over, but it was surely 30% or more. It was like trying to plow through all of the wordiness of a Jane Austen novel!  I sure hope that the publisher kicks those editors in the @$$ for not slicing this thing into a more palatable serving!
I'm a big fan of the series but this installment feels like at least half of it could have ended up in the editors bin. Frustrating ramble back and forth across the Free cities. The sense of direction of the series has gone the way of Eddard Stack, dead.
It could have been about eight hundred pages less than it is.  There is good stuff if you can wade thru all of the knights and their genealogy.
print too small
I write "full of surprises" and said I didn't like it because I thought I was buying The Complete Works of Shakespeare (4th edition) by David Bevington.  I still don't understand how or why I received this book since the page I ordered it from still offers the Bevington book kindle edition for $1.99.
I can't believe that this novel is the result of more than 5 years work by GRRM - honestly, the book is roughly 85% filler in which the plot barely progresses.  In my opinion ASOIAF fans would be better served reading a synopsis than trying to slog through the entire novel (which might sour you on the series as a whole).  Reading this book felt like work to me, and that's something that a book of fiction, and in particular, fantasy fiction should never feel like.
After waiting five years for this opus, I was terribly disappointed.  The story did not move along. More characters and new plot lines were added.  Nothing was resolved.
The book was in perfect condition....but I felt the print was too small...most people would need glasses to read this edition...I wish there was to  way to know the size of the print  before I purchase....or maybe I am missing something?
Very disappointing.  A huge let down from previous books in the series. Not sure I will buy the next book....
I was really disappointed with this latest book in the series. I LOVED the books leading up the "A Dance with Dragons" and was expecting the same for this book. The best way to put it is "it crawls". There is way too much detail and very little action. All of the characters seem to be at a standstill waiting for someone else to move, but they don't. It was very frustrating to finish. I would be extremely upset if I had waited 5 years for this, but I started the series this year. I really hope the next book makes up for this one and doesn't take another 5 years. If you are looking for a great fantasy series in the meantime, check out the Stormlight Archives by Brandon Sanderson - the first book is absolutely amazing!  Happy Reading
I found it difficult to finish this book because I didn't care about most of the characters. I enjoyed the Arya and Jon segments, but the others rarely held my interest.  I have fond memories of reading the earlier books, but that thrill was largely absent here.
This book has great artwork. Beyond that, I believe the book's text author (Bernard Ireland) didn't do his homework. There's no way to know for sure... the book doesn't have a references section... apparently Mr.  Ireland wrote the whole thing from memory. If that's the case then it's  trully a remarkable acheivement. The fact that this book comes under the  auspices of 'Janes', one of the most accurate technical series in the  world, is a disgrace. The technical data in this book is just plaing WRONG  and shows a carelessness I didn't think a professional historian would  allow.
Broken typography.
I couldn't wait to get this book & the HBO series helped amp my motivation. However, this was the least fulfilling book in the series. Absolutely no plot development, and Martin seems to be as lost in taping together character development as I was trying to follow. Too many extraneous characters, and clearly the exciting people I cared about reading - well, he just killed them off. I actually found myself skimming chapters. I think I'll wait until the next 500 page book, and then read the final 100 pages. Will there be anyone left that readers give a hoot about?
I realize that books in the middle of a series must necessarily seem rather incomplete and that they must set up the concluding books, but this wasn't worth the wait. Martin is still 'hiding' too much stuff while apparently attempting to set up his conclusion.  At this point I am expecting the biggest deus ex machina since Philip Jose Farmer crapped up the ending of "The Fabulous Riverboat" series.  It appears that Martin has somehow boxed himself in from whatever storyline he originally envisioned.  The only thing that could save this for me at this point is a massive alien invasion that rescues the monsters of the Frozen North Beyond the Wall who turn out to be the descendants of stranded aliens from a crashed spaceship thousands of years ago.  The Red God will then be revealed as an alien enemy of the stranded aliens who followed them and is trying to kill them all, take over the world, and raise humans as cattle.  Seriously, while Martin is fine writer most of the time, this is too much.  Well-written if you don't give a hoot about plot, characters, or logic.  I'm done.  I'll not buy the next one.  I may skim it at the library to see if Martin has found some sort of half-resolution.  I'm betting not.
Some of the characters in this book were killed off in an earlier book. It was confusing at best and more characters added when we wanted to know what happened to the others?  Is there another book coming??????  It did  not finish very well.  I was totally disappointed.  Jon was attacked and we don't know if he is dead or alive - where is Sansa and Littlefinger and Lady Katelyn?  This book was very long and very little of it tied together.  I loved the other four -  this one was hard to read.
bad
Given as a gift
I love this series but this book was a real let down.  GRRM has way too many story lines going on to keep the reader interested.  As with each of the previous books in these series, GRRM jumps from character to character with each chapter.  Usually this is not a bad way to write a book and usually it is keeps the reader enterained.  Sadly this is not the case.  The bigest problem is that nothing remotely interesting happens in any of the chapters and with jumps between so many different story lines the book becomes a complete agony to read. Unless you are a die hard Dance of the Dragons fan don't both giving it a read and only if you have a large bottle of asprin nearby.
It wasn't worth the (extremely long!) wait. This book makes a lot of promises-but never quite gets around to fulfilling them. I slogged my way through it, but I hope the next one is more like the first ones... and don't take so long to write, either!
First of all, the reviews for this book are a mess.  Quite a number of them refer to the Kindle version, and quite a few of them refer to books that are NOT the OUP version of the collected works of Shakespeare.  I wanted to assign this edition for my students, but amazingly, the plays are not annotated, so if you do not know what Hamlet means by a "bare bodkin," tough luck.  Furthermore, the introduction to the plays themselves are shockingly short--really, ONE PAGE to introduce Henry V? OUP is usually a highly reliable press, but it has really let everyone down with this version.  Rectify these two problems in the third edition, and this could be the best of the collected works of Shakespeare, but sadly, this edition is a major disappointment.
Two stars for Theon and Ramsey B. Very little happens in this part. If it wasn't for Theon, I'd have thrown the book out the window. Other characters only talk and think a lot. Even Jon disappoints (except for the part with Janos Slynt), and Tyrion, his chapters are so booooring... He used to be so brilliantly witty. Sad to say but I had to skip paragraphs, sometimes whole pages to get to the end. It would have been more exciting to kill off some poor bastards and make room for new ones. If another volume  doesn't bring a huge storm  I'm done with Martin. Send him to the Wall, I say.
Loved the first 3 books, but NOTHING is happening in this series.  The last few books have been nothing but characters sailing or riding from one location to another.  That's it.  Not a single thing was resolved in this massive book.  Just a total story failure on every level.  Sucks.
It is one of those books that is long, long long. You better have a great memorie for names and places, for they just keep coming.  It is easy to get lost in the words in this book. There are truly just too many.  It is a great story, it is just watered down by being way too long. The same action happens over and over again. I felt like I could have skipped half the words and know exactly what is going to happen. So, right now, I have put the book down for I get bored of blood and the perils of traveling. I hope to pick it up again when I have nothing else to read.  I give this book a solid mediocre.
In general this particular book really is lousy.  The Author no longer has a clue how to edit himself and it is just rambling for large parts of the book.    As an example instead of taking a sentence or two to reveal that someone was seen while taking out the trash he would spend 9 pages of rambling pointless text to have the same revealed.    There is a reason why most authors do not go beyond 250 or so pages for a book... the pacing is so much better!  -> Even if this was edited down to half the 957 pages it still is would be disapointing.    I will not say anything that is a spoiler....  But trust me this is his worst book in the series yet by far!
I was really anticipating book five to close the story line from book 4---Nope. I don't see the NEXT book as a continuation but a frustration.
This compilation may be the most authoritative, but the annotations for which the Oxford edition is famous are not visible on my Kindle Paperwhite.
After three fantastic books the series comparatively jumped into the toilet.  I would easily believe that the authors are totally different.  At a minimum whoever wrote the 4th and 5th books didn't have a good editor. As others have noted, Martin follows the path blazed by Jordan by not finishing the story and simply builds out more settings and more characters.  The series would be better named, The Endless Story.  At this point I'm rooting for the Others. Among the various woes in Dance with Dragons is the excessive quote harping, continuous stream of new characters, unwarranted new territories, excessive garment descriptions, excessive new territory custom descriptions and excessive finance descriptions.  If you are going to write a story, write a story.  If you want to write RPG game data then do that but don't call it a novel. If Martin is really writing this then he needs to find a ghostwriter.  If he is using a ghostwriter now then banish him and get another. This was the last Martin book I plan on buying or reading.
It is a reprint of the hymnals we used as a boy growing up in the 30's and 40's,  I would recommend for anyone look for a book of old southern hymns.
Did not arrive in good shape. The listing description and the item did not match We Had to send it back for a refund
I finally received the Shakespeare, and the packaging was terrible. Just an envelope and one end was opened up and someone tried to secure it with scotch tape that came loose. Amazingly, the book is fine and I see no need to return it. Much more care needs to be taken when packaging any books for shipment.
You know its a bad book when you skip whole chapters (and I can feel safe skipping Dany chapters because she aint going anywhere) to get to the next chapter where hopefully something, anything, happens thats remotely interesting. Being interested is not an emotion you will experience in abundance with  ADWD, it is more of a long hard trawl through tedium and repetition hoping that some of the magic of the first three books will suddenly come alive.  I guess when you have tv series on the go, conferences to attend and other books to edit, crafting a work of art falls firmly in the back seat.  Disappointed again.  The top rated 3 star review sums up my feelings more eloquently than I ever could, just wanted to get my say in.
As a kindle book this fails. The navigation is almost none non-existent. This is too much material, and not material one would read in order, for this to work.
I thought this was going to be the final book in the series so I was quite surprised to find the ending so up in the air.  I am so frustrated with the plot - it seemed to ramble on and on and on.  I found myself skipping quite a few pages because they were so boring.  I would have liked a crisp, clean book.  This 5th novel in the series was the least satisfactory with all the characters so unfinished.  This series is quite long enough, already.  GRRM, haven't you earned enough money without stretching the series into oblivion??
I would suggest skipping this book and just reading the cliff notes in preparation for the next.  Martin seems to need to tread water for a few hundred pages.  The books are beginning to read more like a history than a story.  Though I understand that Martin wishes to stress the uniqueness of the surprise and the minutia of everyday life, the two combine in this book to make reading a completely unrewarding experience.  It is either painstakingly describing a meal or sitting bored in a throne room or killing off characters by the handful.  It lacks the subtle balance of building and relieving tension.  It's just left to simmer.  After awhile I stopped caring so much about the characters and the book became easier to read.  I felt unrewarded for my investments in characters or plot twists.  There were also some odd mistakes.  For instance children only hungry for a few days were described with distended stomachs, while this actually occurs after malnutrition covering months or years.  Also in one paragraph a character is described with her hair up and the next it is falling around her shoulders.  I stopped keeping track after a dozen.  I can't help but suspect this was a rush job and needed more tender loving care from an editor.
This book went nowhere fast. Several times Martin used entire paragraphs for  nothing but naming names.  Also was a very predictable story.  Think this will be the last book of this series I read, which is really a shame as the first three books were exceptional.
I think the title of this post says it all.  Loved the first three books when I started reading them 10 years ago....then something happened, and we all had to wait years and years between books. The last wait of five years was almost unforgivable. After stumbeling through "A feast for Crows" I thought that "Dance" might turn it up a notch. Boy was I wrong, the book goes no where and to me it is "unforgivable". I finished with Mr. HBO.
Kindle version doesn't have a table of contents. Can't skip ahead to the play I want to read. Poor search tool.
I purchased this book on Kindle for my Shakespeare class. Some other students had the hard copy, so I was able to compare.  The hard copy of this book is beautiful, and from what little I know, the choice to conform to the Folio texts was a great choice. Some of the plays even include alternate Quarto passages toward the back, great for comparison and for reading!  However, don't buy on Kindle, not if you're planning on using this book for scholarship. There is a Table of Contents, which helps with navigation, but I haven't found a way to access the annotations and footnotes. Since I was buying this particular volume for research, I needed to buy a different book. For casual readers, this would still be a great purchase, but students, go with the hard copy of this book or another: reading Shakespeare without notes is not a wise plan.
This was my least favorite of the series and I actually had a hard time getting through it. With earlier books I couldn't put them down but this time, the magic and excitement were gone. Martin seems to write entire chapters with little interesting events, then just when things heat up, the chapter will end on a cliffhanger. The true disappointment comes later when that part of the story is picked up again after the resolution of what would have been interesting. You get the feeling that George Martin can't write the best parts of the story so he just skips over them and focuses on the droll aspects that don't go anywhere. Lastly it seems he's turning up the trash factor with more implied lewd sex acts which greatly detract from the book as a whole.
Does this man truly have an editor? I feel it's telling that the very first page contains what looks to be a glaring grammatical error.  This is a book dedicated to everyone's favourite characters doing uninteresting things in excruciating detail -- eating, pissing, sailing, walking, being kidnapped -- but ultimately nothing of real consequence. GRRM's writing has devolved into a Dan Brown-like parody of itself where every chapter ends on a ridiculous cliffhanger. Every character is being "killed -- but not really!" or "actually killed -- but brought back to life!" with such alarming regularity that it has grown numbing, predictable and uninteresting.  The first three books in the series were fantastic but A Feast for Crows put the noose around my neck and A Dance With Dragons kicked the chair out. I no longer believe in GRRM's ability to wrap this up in two more books, or to do so in an interesting or timely fashion. I'll read a Wikipedia synopsis when the series wraps up in the year 2064, but as far as giving this man any more of my money goes -- I'm out.
This book is riddled with many frustrating errors in the text.  I haven't read it cover to cover but found Richard II and Henry IV particularly bad.
5 Years for this pile of c%$p? - Come on George, we expect so much more from you  Where do I start? The book is too Long There are too many new characters that quite frankly, you simply don't care about (Seriously, if I liked Steven Erikson.....I would read Steven Erickson) All of the Houses and Lineage - I can't keep track of all that....... The story hardly progresses Jon Snow - WTF!  The only chapters worth reading are for Reek/Theon  (Sigh)
Like other authors who have had a successful book series, Martin successful draws out the franchise.  The books time line is very short.  A more apt description for this book is a compilation of short stories rather than a rich world of characterless tied together by events.  The killing off of characters continues and only proves that Martin lacked vision for the progression of the story.  I will not continue reading the series after this book, Martin has turned this story into a soap opera that uses unlikely and ridiculous events to keep the reader entertained.  Case in point, don't build up the characteristics of a main character whose underlying traits drive his every action, then in the span of a couple paragraphs have him perform an about face.  Cheap and shallow suspense makes for a cheap and shallow story.
I like Shakespeare plays. The kindle version of this book was hard to read. When reading a Play, its hard to determine which character is speaking. Plus it doesn't tell you what line you are reading.
The print size is so tiny to fit all this text into one book of this size. I would have preferred a larger sized book or more pages in the hardcover I purchased in order to have normal size or comfortable reading size letter's. This would be a perfect book to get for a Kindle or E-Reader device where one can enlarge the print size. The print size on the Hardcover is too uncomfortably small for me to enjoy this edition.
Were this book written by anyone but GRRM, it would be laughed out of the publisher's office. It has no real plot development. There is no build up of story. No climax. Characters and story arcs are still being introduced in the final chapters... It's just a "whole lot of nothing" interrupted by main characters dying every now and then for no discernible reason other than GRRM doesn't know what to do with them anymore.
This book was a sad disappointment.  Repetitious, meandering, nonsensical.  I'm annoyed at George RR Martin for leading us on for five years and delivering this and taking my money.  Martin is an amazing writer.  The first three books are a testament to that. Like many have said, this book screamed for an editor.  I will not be buying any more books in this series, even if I am curious about the outcomes.  I am not giving this author any more of my money.  There are so many more authors capable of keeping their writing tight and interesting, hungry to impress and working hard that deserve our money.
I've read All of GRRM's books.  The first 3 were very good.  But a Dance with Dragons and Feast for Crows have left me with a feeling of loss.  I figure I'm already heavily invested in reading this 7 book series, so I read a Dance with Dragons.  I think a lot of people feel the same about being heavily invested in finishing the series.  Reading this book was like doing homework.  You just slug through it.  The good thing about this being an Amazon best seller is every library will have a copy of the book.  I recommend don't waste your money on buying this book.  Read it for free from the library.  Even if you have to wait for the library book to become available, you're not missing much, and the next book won't be out for another 5 years anyway.
. . . with everyone who expressed frustration with too many characters and plotlines.  While I have enjoyed the overall plotline/paradigm/tableau/whatever you want to call it, the buffet of storylines started really getting out of control in the fourth book.  Ironically Martin somewhat addresses this at the end by assuring all will be made clear in DWD.  It didn't take 100 pages to decide that wasn't the case. Hopelessly lost and frustrated, I just "went with it", no doubt missing a whole lot because constantly combing through the "glossary" at the end of the book every three pages was tedious in the extreme.  Bigger is not always better.
I reviewed several different versions and selected this one because it has the standard line numbers - important if you're in a group discussion. The navagation features and page layout are just fine when I open this on my laptop using the Kindle Reader program. But, when I transfer the book to my Kindle, the navagation freezes and the fonts go heywire.  I tried removing and reloading the book several times but the results were always the same.  I finally purchased the Latus ePublishing edition without line numbers. that product does load and function properly on my Kindle.
Whilst I was happy to agree with most of the reviewers' high praise, and accordingly bought the book based on these, I found that two plays (La Comdie des Mprises & Le Jour des Rois) werre in French - which I do not know well enough to read Shakespeare. I have returned my copy and will try another version.
GRRM is rightly known for killing off some of his major characters, to major dramatic effect in AGOT and ASOS. Now, it almost seems like he wants to kill off the entire series! It is impossible to disagree with the many reviewers who point out that there is no major plot advancement. The fact that characters are suddenly (over)using expressions they did not use before in the series is jarring. GRRM introduces more characters than he knows what to do with and has some of the old ones undergo disappointing transformations. For example, the most interesting character in all of fantasy, Tyrion Lannister, has devolved into a third-rate circus attraction. The Dorne plot was a major red herring (more like a red whale actually, considering the many pages devoted to it both in AFFC and ADWD) and Daenerys has become as boring as Brienne was in AFFC. The many POVs make it difficult to form a coherent understanding--and enjoyment of--the overall story.  That said, after having finished the book, I reread the Reek/Theon chapters in order; read this way, they provide a compelling story arc and show the Martin of old. It is on these chapters that I am basing my hope that Martin can pull it together for the next installment. He will definitely need a good editor, though.
After the 5+ years it took GRRM to write this book, it's easily understandable that many readers had high expectations for Book 5 in the series of A Song of Ice & Fire. Granted, most high expectations are never met, leaving those who had them disappointed. I get all of that. But this book was a major disappointment. Although there were some redeeming chapters, and some great writing, for the most part, the book is one long, meandering tale that sees little to no development occur concerning the main story arcs. Cliffhangers from previous story lines are unresolved, yet a few new cliffhangers are (cheaply) forced upon the reader.  I really hope GRRM makes a resounding comeback in the next book, otherwise this series, which had such a strong, promising start, may flounder into the realms of mediocre fantasy. That's if GRRM is actually able to finish the series before he dies, which, at his current pace, doesn't look likely.  For fans of this series, do yourself a favor, and seriously lower your expectations. That will make the good parts shine brighter, and the bad parts not seem so poorly written.
I am so grateful to George R.R. Martin for his first three books. They are wonderful to read. My only experiance with fantasy fiction has been the "Hobbit" series. I think maybe its my own personal taste but after reading thousands of pages I became so tired of nothing being resolved. Even characters I loved, I became impatient with. How many times can Arya be abducted by one group or another? Is Tyrion just insane? Is it possable that Daenerys is just not very bright? This fifth book is still beautifully written, but I just felt impatient and annoyed by it. I will probably not purchase the next book, but I'm still grateful for the first three.
Book looks great but when I got to King Lear, the whole second act was missing as was the whole first act of Macbeth. I'm returning the book beyond the return deadline and hopefully will get a full refund. Check the 1200's when you get your book.
Yeah, all the works are there. If you are not experienced in reading shakespeare, this is NOT for you. The annotations that it claims to have are there, but there are not at the bottom of the page like they are in a book, you have to go search in the poorly designed appendix for the annotations.  NO LINE NUMBERS. If you buy this for a college class, you will be lost. You may be able to search and find, but its hard.  Formatting is often off and not always uniform, making it harder to read than necessary.
I too came late to the series but have read these over the last few months.  Have to say my addiction is pretty intense actually.  After reading all of these consecutivley, I would have to say that A Dance with Dragons was the worst.  I undertand that long time GRRM fans have been waiting an eternity for this one to be released but what I don't understand is how HE could have allowed such a mess of book.  As others have said, Dragons went no where.  GRRM, please oh please tell us that you have something coming soon to redeem this mess of a story and complete it in this life time.  Bring the dragons to Westeros and let winter finally come.  After 5 books you would think it would have.  Or is the money HBO is paying you blinding what brought you to this point?
Don know why but I cannot process after 10 pages. The characters are not exciting to learn about. Maybe it is me, not the book's problem
This is a great classic novel and currently my daughter is reading it for her literature class. We borrowed this book in hard cover format and just fell in love with the book. The book we got from the library is very nicely printed and it is a charm to handle it. I was so glad to find this book on Amazon and initially I thought I am buying the same book only in soft cover.  I cannot tell you how disappointed I was to finally receive this book and realize that this is not the same book we admired so much!!! While the cover looks the same, this book more likely resembles a thick magazine. Gone are the pictures. The front cover illustration is no more than a cheap photocopy of the original. What is the most disappointing is the font. It is so miniscule - you will break your eyes trying to read this book.  The delivery of this book took a couple of weeks, very strange and unusual for Amazon. Now I am suspecting, that the publisher is just printing those books on demand and does it very cheaply. I am returning this book. Do not judge the book by its cover, but this "book" is not a book I was looking for! This is not even a book! Very sad that the publishers stopped printing classics because people stopped reading and buying them...
If the next book were ready to go, this (and the previous) would perhaps even be perceived positively, by those of us with time and patience.  OK as background if something were available to move on to... Otherwise, just irritating.
I guess taking a step back to seemingly simpler times just to forget the struggles of the every day problems is a pleasant trip.
Here's a real Game of Thrones:  Repeat the following words 5 billion times:  Soldier pines and sentinels You know nothing, Jon Snow Mummer's farce Must needs Would if I could Words are wind Black wings, black words Corn, Corn, Corn Jape, jape, jape If I look behind me I am lost Winter is coming A Lannister pays his debts  Then insert them into a meandering story with another 5 billion dead end characters and never reach any sort of conclusion.  Also, don't be afraid to spend 5 pages listing out the exact color and appearance of everyone's banners.  Be sure to detail not only what everyone is eating, but what they told their servant to dress themselves in before they ate said described food.  Then add in a few more chapters of obscure characters reciting ancient Westeros history to each other.  It's no wonder HBO jumped on this series, it's their bread and butter (Why hello there,  Carnivale).  (Under the sea this book's plot actually advances, I know, I know, oh oh oh)
I absolutely loved the first three books of this series and I've enjoyed other George R.R. Martin efforts but this book was a huge disappointment. This book is technically great writing that meanders and stalls for over 1000 pages, any forward progress in the story could have been handled in under 100 pages. I could have forgiven this if I hadn't already suffered thru 'A Feast for Crows' and a 5 year wait for 'A Dance with Dragons'. I hate to say it but I'm done. Martin can obviously write the kind of books I enjoy (1-3)but he has lost me, he's not writing the same style of book now and frankly I feel cheated. This is not what I signed on for, there's no action, no surprises, little story advancement, too little information on too many characters. Put simply, this series is no longer entertaining.
After getting hooked on this fantasy series just looking for some closure, I  was sorely disappointed in this book and the series as a whole. There are few characters for whom we feel some sympathy and I got very tired of the endless torture and gore, with no resolution. My ending: Dany ends the wars and Jon becomes her husband. The dragons are tamed or banished and the Stark sisters are reunited happily. I will not buy any further episodes.
This ebook formatting of all of Shakespeare's works seemed too good to be true.  And in this case, it is.  The formatting on the plays is not good and makes them practically unreadable.  The character names appear above the lines they speak but there's no differentiation between the character and the lines so it's very confusing.  And unless you're reading with the matching font size the lines end strangely.  Sometimes a cheap Kindle version of a classic is worth weird formatting issues but with Shakespeare it can get confusing.  If only they had perfected the formatting.  I thought having all of Shakespeare's plays, sonnets and poems on my Kindle would be an invaluable way to carry Shakespeare with me everywhere but I'll need to go back to my hard copy versions.
I was going to give three stars because of the first three books, how could I give this book only two, but when you look at it there is no resolution to anything. a story spun out so that the dragons can grow is about all it comes down to.  Throughly disappointing, 900+ pages and no ending to anything. It seems as if George and his editor sold out to Hollywood back in Feast for Crows.  I will not be rereading this and it has put me of rereading the first three, hell I may even have to let my friends know how bad it is.  George your not getting any younger I suggest a new editor, one that will put you back on track. Let the next book be the finish of it, sell the franchise if you want money, and write something else cause this Game has been played out.
Does anyone have a clue as to where this series is going?  Martin seems to be mired in a morass of his own making.  He's going nowhere and taking an eternity to get wherever nowhere is.  The cliff-hangers are getting stale, the characters are becoming less and less engaging, and I'm at the point where I don't even care how the series ends any more.  Martin needs to do everyone a favor and wrap the whole thing up once and for all.  But from the way this series is creeping on and on and on, I have a sinking feeling the ending is going to be less of a bang than a whimper.  Judy Lind
Bottom line review of this book: it is boring. It also left me feeling manipulated and cheated.  I'm tired of dead people coming back to life, cliff hangers with no resolution, and page after page of nothing happening. I actually got tired during A Feast for Crows, and didn't do more than skim Dance. It sat on my shelf for a while before I even did that.  The first three books were a wonder, and I'm glad to have found them. But I won't be following this series anymore. By the time the next book is written, I won't even be sorry.
I just bought the book yesterday.  Very nice looking, and full of the text that I wanted to read.  The content is great--Shakespeare, after all.  Dropped the book, and the leather cover of the book ripped itself from the spine of the pages.  Apparently, this book is put together rather cheaply.  It's nice, though, if you let it just sit around and don't read it.  But my guess is that this book would have torn up anyway after 50+ turns of opening it up.
This was advertised as being a critical edition.  Instead it is simply the Gutenberg electronic version without helps (at least for the IPhone).  But it works for my purposes, if as somewhat of a disappointment.
I purchased this thinking it would be great for my Shakespeare class.  It isn't.  The editors have made decision about the text that do not match with what seems to have been (right or wrong) standard.  Too difficult to follow along.  Has a pretty good introduction, but you can get this online and elsewhere.  Use Arden or Folger.
I want to like it. I want to finish it. This book is so heavy, I think I will finally be forced to buy an e-reader. I feel bored and lethargic when I read this. Oh, what happened to this awesome series? Nothing else to be said!
too bad such a great series had to end so limply. the last long awaited book, artificially held back, obviously to coincide with the hbo series and create exta hype, has absoultely no real meat at all. it was the opposite of hard to put down. it was hard to pick back up, most of the time. in some places i felt like i was reading a cereal box for something to do.
Although the product description includes a long section called "From the Back Cover" which explains in excruciating detail why the Bevington is the best edition, it turns out this text has nothing to do with this item and is not the back cover text. This is not the Bevington edition, and the much praised notes and numbering system are not used in this item.  This description should be modified, as it is extremely misleading!
an extremely verbose novel that did little to advance the story. not sure why this was so long in the making unless it was to just increase the number of pages. very much a disappointment.
I had to return this after a year when I noticed that one of Hamlet's lines was missing! An obvious typo. His name is printed in all caps, but the line is left out. It's in Act I, Scene 5. The scene with the GHOST. HAMLET says "Speak, I am bound to hear." Except in this version Hamlet doesn't say it.  I'm guessing the error must have happened in the conversion from print to digital. It's a very nice edition otherwise and I hope to re-acquire it someday after the error has been fixed. I like that it has Thomas Moore, which Shakespeare is believed to have partly written. The rep at Amazon couldn't have been nicer and said he'd pass on the error to the folks at Oxford.
You know, after reading 5 books - some thousands of pages - it would be nice to see somebody accomplish something.  Perhaps, dare I say it, even succeed at their plan?  Let me make the obvious comparison: after 3 books, Frodo threw the ring in the fires of Mt. Doom.  How cool was that?  Basically, this series has fallen into the seemly inescapable trap that fantasy series have a way of doing.  That is, after a couple of books there are way too many characters and story lines, no goals are met, and endless ink is generated describing silly details like clothes and food.  (I almost expected Rand al'Thor to show up at some point in this book)  So...I guess what I'm saying is that I hope you are reading this review before you start the series.  The first couple of books are great.  But you will eventually be disappointed.
I've followed George Martin from the start, but he's losing me.  I guess I have six more years to decide if I want to read his next novel or not?  I feel like epic fantasy is in a slump...
Slow and hardly advances the story at all. With every other book in this series I raced through to the end. I started this one that way until I realized the book is apparently one giant prologue for...what? Like others have said in these reviews, we waited six years believing that this book would answer certain questions or at least advance certain story lines. It didn't do either. Mr. Martin better get his act together, quickly this time, and recover from this travesty with a better book because right now he is doing exactly what he says that he feared. He's on the verge of pulling a Lost.
I'm a big fantasy fan, I loved books 1-3, struggled through book 4 (actually quit half way then took it up again after the show came out)  Book 5 is just too slow.  It's all journey and no destination.  What's with all the fake killing GRRM?  Seriously!  I don't mind this as a plot device once in a while, but you need to learn another trick already.
I love this series but this book is a major let down. It is so painfully slow where very little happens and the little that does happen is not that interesting unfortunately.  I wish Martin would stop killing off all of the engaging characters in the series leaving us with the less interesting ones. It's hard to get truly invested in the characters when you know it's very likely they'll be killed off in the next book or two.  He should have named this book "Much Ado about Nothing", but unfortunately that title has already been taken by a much better book by a superior author. To be fair, Martin is a gifted writer and I've enjoyed this series greatly. Hopefully he'll redeem himself in the next book.
This album really is fantastic from start to finish. The trouble is with the pressing of the vinyl. Audible clicks, pops and even distortion is noticeable. Cleaning with a brush and record solution doesn't fix it sadly. Other records play just fine on the same turntable setup. It's a real shame as this album is wonderful, it deserves a better pressing.
Having just downloaded my copy, I eagerly searched for some favorite quotes. Going straight to "but man, proud man...." in Measure for Measure, the fact that "spleens" had become "speens", ruined my enjoyment completely. In view of the material at hand, I would have expected a little more care to have gone into the final proofing of the text. Instead of risking more of the same, I think I'll just forget about the 3.99 and get a different version.
I had looked forward to this latest novel of George R. R. Martin, having enjoyed the preceding books in the series. What a disappointment - frankly it was a grind to read and several times I almost gave up. He is doubtless a great writer with impressive prose and active imagination. However ... I found the story thread impossible to follow as it is disjoint. There are endless introspections and flash backs that add little to the story. He must have used the word 'jape' and 'mummer' a hundred times and I found it irritating. There are far too many secondary characters that left me confused, and muddied the story line. The book is far too long for what it has to say. A pity.
GRRM has created an unwieldy mess with Dance with Dragons. It started with Storm of Swords and continued with Feast for Crows. He's done nothing to resolve it and only added to the mess by creating more meaningless characters and trite plot twists (can you say baby switched at birth-really?). You say you wanted some resolution with DWD? Sorry. You're not going to get it. However, if you enjoy about 1000 pages of characters you know (and may love) and characters you don't know and don't care about doing nothing but traveling (literally - yes, they do nothing but plod along dirt roads for 3/4 of the book), then maybe this book is for you. I, for one, have decided that I am probably done with GRRM/ASOIF. I gave up on Robert Jordan and Frank Herbert. And, sadly, I think GRRM is headed that way too.
All I can say is how disappointed I am in this book,I couldn't stop reading the first few books and this one I have to make myself sit down and read it. I agree with some of the other reviews, Martin just goes on and on about nothing and no one is getting anywhere. I don't even know if I will finish reading the entire thing. All the main characters from before are barely if at all mentioned and from what I can tell from everyone else it isn't worth it. I am so tired of these good authors writing fantastic books but then they make you wait years for the next one and it's like they just keep dragging it out. I am sorry I pre-ordered this book. From now on I will wait and see if I should bother. This is nothing like the first few. Good luck to whoever can finish reading it.
First three books were brilliant. However, the last two......not so much.  Like General George McClellan, who created the Army of the Potomac, but was afraid to actually use it; Mr. Martin is getting a reputation as an author who is brilliant at the set up, but is afraid to get on with the story.  He seems to have cliff hanger syndrome.....or simply wants the story to drag on forever, for reasons only he can answer - concise story telling is not one of the reasons, money may be.
Had a hard time getting into the books. Read them years ago but this time for some reason did not enjoy an never finished reading the book I started.
purchased it used and it came scratched. very disappointed
I eagerly awaited the fifth book in George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series, A Dance with Dragons, but after reading almost 1000 pages, I was left disappointed and discontented.  Although he has created an intricate world with multi-faceted characters in this series, if Martin wants to hold on to his faithful readers, he must do the following: speed up the pace of the plot, quit rewarding the despicable characters, and stop torturing, killing, or constraining the decent ones.  I have been a faithful reader for more than a decade, but Martin's obsession with the idea that "good guys always come in last" is growing tiresome.  I get it.  The world here is ruthless and brutal, but must I be knocked over the head with that notion constantly and relentlessly?  This is one reader who is ready for the good guys to start kicking butt and taking names.  I don't think that's too much to ask.
I read the first three books, and after seeing all the bad reviews about this and the last book, I'm going to stop reading the series. Maybe I'll just wait for the HBO shows or not, but very disappointing to hear all the negative reviews...  Oh well, time for something else
Over 5000 pages and no end in sight.  This was supposed to wrap up the saga, but it looks like another 5000 pages before we're done.  I was looking forward to closure but was sorely disappointed.
The new 2014 UMe/Capitol LP (#B00MXEJG8S) does NOT use the original stereo mix that has been used on all vinyl pressings since 1963.  It's a remix done by Robert Norberg for CD a few years ago, with added reverb, darker tone, etc.  If you want to hear the album as it has always sounded, in its vintage stereo mix, you need to look elsewhere.
Considering all of the Anthologies and such that Martin has been the Editor for it seems a stroke of irony that he really could have used an Editor to make the most recent two books in this once amazing series coherent. As others have said, the events A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons could have easily been one novel as originally planned. Instead we got a lot of Jordan-esque blocks of minutia and story arcs that go literally nowhere. I found myself skipping through half of the chapters as I had to start doing with Jordan's later novels. Needless to say, I did not enjoy the walls of detail he put forth in this effort and I kind of feel I spent money on a book about food and catchphrases when I thought I had bought the next Novel in ASoIaF.  It was worth it only because while Martin kind of fell flat with this one, the series as a whole is still better than 95% of anything else in fantasy right now. Hopefully it doesn't take seven years for the next installment and Martin can bounce back into form.
This is a book written to make money.  It does not move a story forward, it is not exciting or mysterious or romantic.  It just plods along going nowhere.  George may be making a lot of money, but his reputation as an author is just fading away.
I own and have read thousands of books, and this Oxford edition of Shakespeare's complete works is by far the worst bound book I have ever come across.  I had pages falling out of my copy within days of using it.  Oxford University Press should be ashamed for binding this book so badly.  If you want the text of the Oxford edition, then buy the hardcover Norton Shakespeare, which uses the text of the Oxford edition.  Better yet, check out the RSC Complete Works, edited by Jonathan Bate and Eric Rasmussen and published by Modern Library.
I have been a big fan of this series and it is one of the few fantasy series I tell others they have to read.  With that said, skip this book, it goes no where and destroys the characters that made this series what it was.  Martin is an amazing writer, but was asleep at the wheel (on his way to the bank) with this book.  I have to wonder that if the real reason it took so long to "produce" is because he really didn't want to write it.
I just purhased this version of Shakespeare's Complete Works and there is no table of contents when you open it! How am I supposed to navigate without a ToC?? Maybe mine will update like the other customer said his did, but right now I'm very disappointed with this purchase.
I was incredibly disappointed by this book.  It went no where fast and anyone worth caring about is dead or missing for too long.  Don't bother telling me when the next installment is available.  I have moved on.  This series started with so much promise and books one, two and three were fantastic.  Book four stumbled and book five crashed and burned big time.  This whole series would have made a great trilogy with the right editor.  Sorry but giving this two stars is generous.
I love the series coming late to it after watching the HBO special. I am truly sorry for all the fans that waited FIVE years for this book. I only waited 3 months after reading the first four this year. What a disappointment! Worst of all, every character was left in a cliffhanger, if it can be called like it. So many loose ends from the previous book that in conjunction with this one, the whole book looks like a fur ball. And now it seems that we may have to wait FIVE more years to see a conclusion? What a disappointment!
I should have known I was in for something after I read George's acknowledgment that writing this book was three bitches and a bastard.  Well for the reader it has been a DOUBLE MUTHA!! I have been a fan of this series since the paperback edition of AGOT was released - the one whose cover shows a dark haired Fabio dressed in black and riding a black destrier through the snowy vistas with a white wolf at his side. Yeah - I've been on this journey for some time.  As the first three novels were so compelling - I wolfed them down in a few nights.  Even AFFC - I forced myself to finish in five days. But this one - ADWD - OMG!! it's been nearly three weeks since its release - and I am still trudging through this profusion of prose and maze of delusions after 763 pages. Again - OMG and WTF! Reading this book has been exasperating and I am in total agreement with the 2-2.5 star ratings.  Oh Seven Gods and R'hllor, Lord of Light, give me the strength to finish this book!
from the reviews I saw (after reading the book-I wanted to go in fresh), I could not agree more.  I thought there would be more resolution to story lines.  All we got was approximately 100 pages of history lesssons of Dragons, Septas, Kings, Knights.  I don't understand adding the new points of View from Dorne or other (read the book); Bran (a major character) had very few POVs.  What about Brianne?? we followed her up and down the Kings Road in the last book only to see her pop out of a bush!  I have to say this was the 4th worst book I have read.  We waited patiently for over 4 years for this installment only to see as we read it-The dance goes on and on and on...Please Mr. Martin, do not drift--get back to the story!
The workmanship in this 6th Edition is less than satisfactory.  Several of my fellow seminar students had their books split upon opening the front cover of the hardback.  Apparently, the inside of the cover and first page are defective, either in material or application.  My copy has not split yet.  However, it is obvious that there is stress and it is just a matter of time.  I hope the appropriate person at Amazon reads this.
I was told repeatedly that I needed to become more worldly and that there was more to life than, say, NASCAR. So when someone suggested reading Shakespeare I figured I'd give it a shot. I've never been so baffled in my life at this dude. I can't understand a frickin' word he says!  Listen to this: "I will render thee again in affection; by mine honour, I will; and when I break that oath, let me turn monster: therefore, my sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be merry."  Huh? "Let me turn monster"? What in tarnation does that mean? "Render thee again in affection"? WTH? Does that mean cooking someone you love in bacon grease more than once? I don't know anybody who talks like this.  Or this: "I stood i' the level of a full-charged confederacy, and give thanks to you that choked it."  Seriously, what the freak is that? What is a full-charged confederacy and how does one choke it? That sounds like a euphemism for boppin' the baloney for crying out loud. I just don't get what the big deal is about this guy.
Brian Kendig's previous review says it all, but I wanted to add a caveat to a still-potential buyer: the text is so incredibly condensed that the endings of some of the longer lines are scrunched up in awkward brackets in the white space above, making for a disjointed reading of an already unapproachable edition. (Please read the previous review--it's quite helpful.)
same as what everybody else said.  this story would have made a great 5-book series, but at this point he's just stringing us along for no good reason.  there's an art to writing an epic series like this, and part of that is making each book feel both self-contained and part of a whole at the same time.  this one feels more like a place-holder.  it's a shame that there are so many plot lines here, and that, rather than move any particular character one foot forward, he instead moves a dozen different characters forward an inch.
I didn't realize this was a dumbed down version of the book. It could have been more clearly described in the post.
I have the earlier edition and unless they have greatly improved the printing and binding, I cannot recommend the second edition.  In the first edition, the text is tiny.  My guess would be that it's 7 or 8 pt type and my weak, middle-aged eyes have a hard time reading it.  Also, many times the printing is not complete and some of the words are impossible to read.  The text is formatted in two columns and they push it so close to the gutter between pages that you have to grip the book tightly and pull it apart to see the text closest to the gutter.  It can be quite tiring.  The book is also just too darn thick to read comfortably.  So far I've read only the three parts of Henry VI, which I enjoyed.  I think I'll not read any more from this book.  I've decided to buy each play individually instead.
The first edition was incomplete and the Wells/Taylor team made editorial "choices" based on disproven assumptions and information.  Unfortunately, despite this and the continuing lack of a *decent* glossary, the second edition isn't any better.  Well-known FACTUAL ERRORS are still not corrected and the editors seem to feel they can take just about whatever liberty they fancy with Shakespeare's words (especially with King Lear) and nobody will notice.  If you want a quality edition, spend more and get the Riverside or Arden due to their accurate and intelligent decisions over text discrepancies, insightful commentary and extensive glossary.
I was very excited to get this book, after the disappointment of Feast of Crows.  After reading, I wish would have waited for the 7.99 version.  This book is such a waste of money.  The main story lines don't move at all, and the character development is the weakest I have ever seen in this series.  I don't want to even talk about the Daeneary's story line, complete trash.  At the pace the story line is moving it will take him another 3 books and another 30 years to finish.  The entire book is Filler.  He made his reputation off the first three books, and is milking it as much as he could.  I would not be suprised to learn that he needs to exstend the series by three books to finish (Ka-Ching).
Anyone wanting to quickly and cheaply collect all 39 of Shakespeare's palys can rely on this edition, an inexpensive, barebones Shakespeare.  Those seeking in-depth study should be forewarned, the texts are not annotated at all...even difficult words have to be looked up in the glossary in the back.  The typical scholarly introductory materials found in the preface and apendices is largely absent.  And to top it off, the type is printed in a dark gray ink, instead of black: not that easy to read.  Scholars and students should look elsewhere.  Update: After using this text in the classroom, I would downgrade my rating to one star.  The binding is hardcover, but the its quality is inferior.  Out of ten students in the course, three had books that were falling apart after just two months.
I waited so long for this book.  There are so many good stoies to be told and I feel GRRM  just purposely toyed with his loyal readers!
What they don't tell you is, this is LITERALLY a pocket edition.  It is 0.75 inches by 0.3 inches, and the pages are so small and thin you need special equipment to read them.  The book fits neatly in the pocket of my pants or my shirt.  It even fits in my shoe. By the way, my shoe also fits in my shirt pocket.
Get an editor! Finish the story! Is that really so hard? Review the first 3 books and make the next one like those!!!!!!AAAAAArgh!
It's rather funny that the phrase "words are wind" pops up in a book that has so. many. extra. words. And why does every chapter have to end with a "who shot JR" moment? This book could have been 300 pages shorter and been more compelling for it.  I don't have much to add on top of other reviews except to reiterate a counterpoint to something I read in a GRRM interview: Mr. Martin, I don't really want to fear for the lives of my favorite characters. Life has plenty of nonsensical killings and the bad guys getting away with it. Not what I'm looking for in a fantasy. And, if a particular storyline turns out to be as dire as it seems by the end of the book, then I'm reading the wrong author and will just move on.
There are, obviously, pros and cons to buying any book. This edition of the complete works of Shakespeare is no different. Of course, Shakespeare is great no matter what the binding of the book looks like, but I would  really hesitate to purchase a single book containing the complete works, if  you're buying for everyday reading. I find that such large volumes are  awkward, hard to hold and really thick. My personal collection of  Shakespeare's works consists of single-work paperback volumes, not lovely  to look at, but functional. Someday I hope to buy a set of the complete  works in hardcover, but when I do, I'll look for a set, not a single book.  However, if you're looking for the complete works in a compact package,  this book is for you.
Regardless of whether the narrative is enjoyable, the accompanying maps are totally illegible in Kindle - too small, light and blurry. Especially since much of the action takes place in the East, a lack of a good map is a serious handicap.
Severely disappointing. Both these things needed to happen: 1) A drastic reduction in wordcount, cutting out all the fat, including the lengthy passages where characters move from one location to another without accomplishing anything; and 2) A drastic increase in wordcount as the book builds towards three climaxes, in the North (Stannis), in the Far East, and in the South, but fails to deliver on any of them. Seriously, the book just stops.  Other negatives included ending on a cliffhanger for one major character, and the loss of suspense. In the earlier books, anyone could die any time - a couple of the Starks as very good examples. Here, even minor characters have over 9000 lives, such as Davos Seaworth.  Highly unlikely to purchase hardcover for the next one - thank God for public libraries.
The first half of the book was a complete waste of time. Dragged endlessly and I'd rate it zero stars. The second half things actually did move (pretty slowly), so I'd rate it at 3 stars. For the size of the book (too much), there was an unbelievable lack of "stuff" in it (too little). Arya, Cersei and Brienne/Jaime sections should have been removed. Their stories moved by such a miniscule amount that they were lost in the clutter. Tyrion/Jon/Stannis sections meandered endlessly and ended abruptly. The only storylines that did move were Dany, Bran and perhaps the ironborn (at a frustratingly slow pace). The cast of characters is huge and the spotlight seems to move erratically among them, highlighting them seemingly at random and moving on before you've had a chance to take note or even care (eg. action in Dorne). Or it stays on them endlessly as they go about the humdrum details of daily life (Tyrion/Jon).  I did not feel the time and money I spent were worth it. I'm abandoning the series. A pity, the beginning was so great.
A long wait and so disappointing. The book was wordy and overly descriptive. How much detail do we really need when a person is eating... I don't really care about what the people are eating, I want a progressive plot. Unless the food is somehow moving the plot along, I just don't care. This goes as well for the lengthy deep thinking done by many of the characters, which actually come out as a lot of woe is me. The book could have been cut by 400 words. I found myself drifting off a lot, or skimming quickly through pages to get back to the plot. Some of the characters, such as Davos, were so boring that I almost skipped their chapters. The past books have been so good, this left me numb.
Slow and monotonous for the most part.  It may have middle book syndrome, but that doesn't excuse it for being a sub par book.
This is now typical sci fi trash, on the level of Robert Jordan and other mundane sci fi.  Nothing happens. There is nothing compelling that makes you want to turn the page and read more.  The longer Martin takes to write the book, the worse it is.
This book is a real drag. The Slave Bay faux-exoticism was tolerable when it came in small doses, but a book dominated by it makes for a grueling read. It takes the first half of this book to catch all of the less interesting characters up with the storyline from the previous book. Very little goes on during this time, however. Just angst and indecision - 500 pages worth of it. The second half of the book is about ten times better, and the last quarter has some genuinely exciting moments. It would take a lot more to make up for the slog that is the first half, though. It doesn't help that Martin has become extremely predictable. Setups are dangled before the reader and then dashed to the ground (does anyone fall for the prospect of the good guys winning even a small battle anymore?), characters are wantonly killed and then resurrected so often that all of the deaths in the book lose their impact. Introducing a character and then killing them before they can do anything worthwhile has become tiresome, as well. I'm sure that I'll still pick up the next book when it comes out, but I won't have much in the way of expectations.
Most of the reviewers are great fans of GRRM, and even book number IV made them tired, they did not dare to use the "b" word when describing the "Dance". But I will do it: "A Dance of Dragons" is a boring book. I have been reading this book for two weeks and I am on page 298. I need probably three more weeks to complete my reading. And please note that I needed just one week to read each of the first three books. It looks like the author spent last five years enjoying his status and his money, and lost the ability to create an interesting story. And also, maybe because of the dramatic action and vivid characters presented in the recent HBO serial, this book is so painfully slow and boring. When the six volume is available (probably in 5 to 10 years), I will read the reviews first, and then, maybe buy the book.
GRRM seems to be suffering from Joel Rosenberg disease; create a great world and interesting characters then kill them off, leave the reader thinking that there will be a great payoff, milk the revenue stream without delivering any closure, dwindle off to nothing with characters that nobody cares about.  This book went effectively nowhere with one key character slain for shock value.
The book was ok but boring for a lot of it. It would have an short exciting part then a long boring one then a short good then a long boring one.
When I downloaded the free kindle version, it said that this book contained real page numbers, but it only had the "location" thing. This was a bit discouraging, and I must find a version with page numbers.
Saccharine.  I read this as a kid and didn't like it.  I hoped that as an adult I would.  Not.
but I bought it a Borders at their going out of business sale.  I never thought I say this, but too much of the wisecracking Tyrion and little forward momentum of the story.  I found myself fighting the urge to skip chapters to a Daenerys chapter or a Jon chapetr but those stalled also.  The book is in serious need of some professional editing.
After finishing ADWD, my only response was, "That's it?".  I love Martin's writing.  The book was an easy read, but it felt like one long bridge section building up to something that never happened.  I hate to say it, but this is reminding me very much so of the last FIVE books by the late Robert Jordan.  He too could write a thousand pages of nothing and make you enjoy it.  You spend your time on what appears to be a hearty meal only to find that you've eaten nothing but filler.  ADWD should have been a full meal.  It was barely a snack.
GRRM writes so well he almost gets away with not having much plot.  Almost.  I was unable to put down the first four installments in the Game of Thrones series; not so with Dragons, sorry to say.  In fact, it was something of a chore to get through.  I would say I don't want to give anything away, but honestly, there's not much to give away.  I felt a little irritated that after 1000 or so pages very little had really happened.  Big yawn. :|
This latest installment does not live up to the previous books.  Although there are some interesting parts, another reviewer got it pretty much on the mark--1000 pages of not much happening.  I have read all of the other books in the series and they are all spectacular, but this book falls completely flat.  Not sure what is going on here, how could there be a difference between this book and the others in the series?  Did GRRM run out of any new ideas for the series and is just now writing just for the money.  Unfortunately, I have seen this before.....writers of epic fantasies sometimes just keep the series going for too long.  It has been a long time since I was this bored reading, not sure I will get the next installment.
I've read each novel in this series. I have to agree with others who describe it as "1000 pages" of "nothing happening". That's precisely what this is. There's so much filler in this novel it's hard to believe. I won't be following the series, or the show, any further. 1000 pages, and for what? To me, the novel was a waste of time and an overt money grab by the author. I advise any on the fence about this book to read a plot summary instead.
Stop!  If you are a fan of the Fire and Ice series, do not read this book.  Nothing of import is going to happen and by skipping this book you still may still have the chance of keeping those warm fuzzy feelings you've kept in regards to this series.
This book has some good moments, but he really does need a good editor.  At this point it's probably best to consider the 4th and 5th books as soap opera, not high fantasy. I detested the 4th book as it was truly boring and tedious to wade through. This one is marginally better but should have been much better.  Aaaah well, you're probably best borrowing it from the library if you must read it. Don't pay full price for it.
Some parts of books was very boring keep falling asleep, I waited almost 6 years for this and it was very disappointing the whole book.
After a very long wait for this book, I can honestly say that I was sadly...not so thrilled. It's true as to what the other reviewers say that this book goes on and on and on about the description of food, the long travels by ship and so on and so on and so on. You would think after reading this book I'd have learn to articulate my thought process but the ending and the lack of progress with the plot line has left befuddled and left wanting and wondering. Word of warning, do not get too attached to any character (main or not) as it'll only disappoint you in the end. Especially when the first 3 or 4 books gave you hints that they may have been the hero (if I can use such a word)and will continue to the very end of this series. But then the author is lord, king and god and may do as he wish regardless of what the common fan may say. All in all, it is well written, but the our generation's Tolkien? I think not.
None of the things you want to read about are in this book.  There will be travel, food description, senseless backstory and endless lineage details for characters you care nothing about and have no real narrative relevance. This book is stalling. A huge, huge collection of words all used for stalling.
I, like everyone else, waited along time for this book. what a waste. I felt like it was a robert jordon book, where everyone traveled everywhere but noone did anything. I kept waiting and waiting for it to get better but it didn't. Reek's character was great, Asha interesting, but the rest...... he just left blowing in the wind. excuse, blowing on the ships or in some far off kingdom.  Take us down mainstreet and get to the meat of it already!!!
I'll make this short - the writing is as brilliant as ever and the characters feel very real, almost human. However, there is no excuse for a book with over 1000 pages in which absolutely nothing happens. I don't feel that I need more new characters and more points of view, especially since they don't seem to be very interesting. I found myself skimming whole chapters just to see if GRRM felt liked resolving at least one storyline. Alas, the only one resolved was of a minor character, at the end of the book, whose fate left me feeling ambivalent at best.  If after 5 years of creative writing this is what GRRM has managed to produce then I feel sorry for him. And for his readers.
He accomplishes close to NOTHING in this book. It seems like he's decided to write more books so he was biding plot lines and time in this one.........He makes Danaerys look whiny and I really don't need or want to hear a day by day account of Jon's troubles with food and morale blah blah blah. The plot "addition" only subtracts from the intriguing previous story. If not for Tyrions story I would have given it one star. CAN'T WAIT FOR 6 YEARS TO BE UP FOR THE NEXT ONE..........hopefully it is much much better than this sophmoric attempt.
Seriously.  I find myself skimming over the chapters to 'get to the good parts'.  That tells me I'm bored, and after waiting for this book for so long, it's simply no longer entertaining.  Dani is a waste of time, and I had such high expectations of her.  Tyrion has become the fool he so desparately isn't, and I don't give a crap about all the minor houses that seem to take up a great chunk of the pages and the story.  Jon has been the only saving grace, but I'm afraid even that's wearing thin.  This book is so sadly disappointing.  Like a party you've looked forward to for weeks and weeks, and it turns out to be a big blah.  ADDED Aug 1st.  SPOILER:  REALLY?!?!?!  Jon is dead?  WTF?  Couldn't you have killed off Dani?  Cersi?  But JON?!?! Was this bastard so like his father, that it was his honor and steadfast hold on doing what's right that got him killed too?  Aaarrrggggghhhh!
Many of the other critical reviews have covered the book's failings well, and I have but one thing to add:  Most of this book is exactly the sort of exposition that would have been covered in a training montage if this were a movie: key bits of this excessive scenery could have been edited together to skip forward to the next bit of action.... but it wasn't.
first off i only found the book mildly entertaining compared to some of the others. story was really slow and there was lack of excitement. my biggest grievance between the kindle version and paper version is that on the kindle you can not read the maps. i really enjoy looking at the maps and tracing characters journeys and i cannot in anyway read anything on the maps. this is a big disappointment.
It was pretty good  it was a little boring wasn't the best.if you like Anne of green gables then you should like this book
My thoughts are the same as those of many other folks who have already posted here: instead of being a worthy sequel to the fantastic story of the first three books (we shall pass over the fourth in discreet silence), DANCE boasts too much needless description (of food, of clothing, of bloody TURTLES), far too many pointless POV characters, and not nearly enough PLOT.  Stranger and Maiden and Crone, whatever happened to the plot?  I would mind the lack of action less if there had been some meaty character development to hold my interest along the way, but alas! There was little of that to be had. A character finally getting her head on straight after hundreds of pages of worrying about her clothes and love life does not count as significant personal growth.  A great disappointment, this, especially after the six year wait.
I'm not going to say a lot here because so many others who share my opinion have already written excellent reviews. Suffice it to say, a lot happens in this book, but none of it really means anything to the story. Save your money, wait for a copy to come up at the library, or get it in paperback; after 5 1/2 years, you can wait a few more months to read this one.
I was disappointed in this book. AFFC was plodding and pointless and ADWD is more of the same. The suspense and urgency that existed in the first three books is absent in these last two. I kept waiting for something interesting to happen and it never did. GRRM really needs to stop taking two paragraphs to describe what everyone we encounter is wearing and/or eating each time we see them again. His obsession with clothing and food is tiresome. After ADWD I am no longer going to recommend this series to anyone. I'll read the next books because I have gone this far but at this point I really don't care if another book in the series ever gets completed.
GRRM should have combining Feast and Dance into one book where 1/3 from Feast and 2/3 from Dance.  I felt cheated after finishing Dance.  I came away feeling empty at the end of Dance which is a 180 from how I felt after finished A Storm of Swords.  Sad... Just sad...  I think he will pull a "LOST" ending as like what he feared he may do.
Let me first start by saying I LOVE this series.  But after waiting seriously a long time for this book, getting the book (like a kid at christmas) sitting down and reading it.  I finish it and my first thought was maybe I skipped a chapter.  I did not care how long the book was I enjoy the way Mr. Martin writes.  but the book should have been called tyrion, jon and denerys.  I felt completely cheated.  without giving any spoilers.  through some parts of the book I felt like I was reading another series.  All I can do is wait for the next installment and hope for the best.  Mr. Martin has engaged me for 4/5 books in the series so now we waiting hopefully not as long.  heres crossing our fingers
There's 1000 pages of travelling and turtles and utter waste of paper on this. I mean its hard for me to imagine Tyrion chapters ever being boring yet Martin manages to do it in this book. If you are brand new to the series, better to not invest any time in this series.  This series won't be finished in 7 books even if he ever finishes it.  ADWD was finished earlier this year (11 years since ASoS) and apparently Martin doesn't plan on writing anything this year. I mean with breaks as long as these no wonder the quality of this series has gone down the drain.
It must be very difficult to write 1000 pages where nothing important happens. Possibly this is why it took 5 years for MARTIN to write the book. Aside from the obvious lack of plot,internal inconsistances are everywhere One of the most obvious is Daenerys'once invincible army is now for no reason, powerless. New characters are intoduced by the dozens for no apparent purpose other then filling pages. Old characters you do care about are ignored or killed off,again for no apparent reason other then filling up pages.  Every book even those in a series should stand on its own, this book does not rise to that level. It is filler plain and simple, often well written but filler nonetheles.  All and all a disservice to his many readers
After shuch a long wait I thought this book was very disapointing, the writing was great the story was just a ton of filler and really boring. I really hope the next one comes out faster and has some action.
After the first three books i was convinced we finally had a Fantasy genius on our hands, who broke down all the typical traditional fantasy story telling walls, and he did it without Elves, Dwarves or Goblins !  Like millions of others, the first 3 books left me salivating for more in a way i never had before.  Book 4 shocked pretty much all of us leaving us wondering if Martin was pulling a fast one.  Book 5 leaves us in no doubt, he IS pulling a fast one, or rather an excruciatingly slow painful boring one.  I gave up reading Jordan after book 3, as it was obvious he would milk his single successful series to death. Here however, i feel Martins reasons are different. He really dosnt know where he is going, or rather, he isn't confident that where he is going is the right place to go, thus he "Dallies" for 1000 pages.
This book is very long, but very little happens in it.  I felt llike every chapter could have been summarized in a sentence or two.  There are an enormous number of plot lines, but none of them really get resolved.  The writing is extremely wordy, with tons of useless details but no movement.  By the end of the book I was skimming.  The author omits a lot of important events; suspense is created by wondering what is going to happen, not wondering what happened.  All that creates is frustration.  Some of the characters are interesting.  I wish they would do something.
I was really looking forward to this book, wow was I disappointed.  Absolutely nothing was accomplished and the story remained stalled.  At this pace the rest of the story will fill another 5 books.....at least.
This book is forgettable. I just finished it reading it and I'm sitting here struggling to think of what actually occurred in the book and the answer is: not much. Some people sail, some people have sex, Tyrion makes jokes and rides a pig, and there are A LOT of inner monologues. That is the majority of the book. It feels cluttered, and even more viewpoints have been added. The writing is still good and there are some great moments in this book.  But overall it's just disappointing. This is the result of 11 years of work?
At one point, I was really excited for the opportunity to read this book. I had hoped that the characters I had read about in A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords and A Feast for Crows would continue their journeys and provide me with some excellent entertainment. However, while Dance is not terrible, it is stagnant. I wanted movement from the characters and possibly some resolutions of their plights and challenges. Instead, I got 900 pages of turtles, traveling and annoyance, but no resolutions. In the future I'll most likely wait to borrow a copy of Winds of Winter from my library instead of purchasing an expensive hardcopy.
The whole middle section of the book (about 400 pages) could have been edited out, which would have left room for more exciting final chapters. Martin seems to favor a flurry of plot twists at every book's finale, which is fine--but this time even these felt half-completed. Hopefully he'll listen to reviews and get a new editor for the next book.
The Sub-plots thicken part B.  Of the ~5000 pages published thus far, the last 2000 have been sub-plots going nowhere.  Exceedingly uninteresting (there were a few moment though, so 2 stars),  I believe this can clearly be blamed on the poor editing at this point.
Martin's forte was his political intrigue and the unexpected way he killed off major characters.  Now, it seems everyone comes back from the dead, the political intrigue goes nowhere and he traded realistic fantasy for stupid absurd talking-tree fantasy.  Lots of people are on the move, but no one seems to get anywhere.  The Reek chapters are so over the top and frequent that I started to hate reading them - "Oh God, not another stupid internal rhyming dialogue" was a frequent thought.  Martin has really started to let the size and scope of what he's doing overwhelm him.  It took five years for this...series of unresolved events.  I can only imagine how long we'll wait for more unresolved events, new POVs and new stupid rhymes from Reek (aka Theon).
If you're looking for complex development across a large array of characters or amazing descriptions of settings, this is your book!  If you're seeking plot advancement, this book is like watching grass grow...on Quaaludes.  It seems to me that Martin started off this series strong, but lost control over his storyline over the past two installments.  Things have gotten a little too complex to move the story forward smoothly.  And given the pace at which Martin writes, it's a gamble as to whether or not I'll live long enough to see him finish this series off (I'm 55 - really just jabbing here at the years between book releases).  I hope Martin regains the magic in the next book.  2 stars...zzzzzzzzzzzzz.
After I was reading the book non-stop for 16 hours straight, my girlfriend asked me if it was really that good. I said "no, I'm just trying to get to the point when something happens". By the time I was 6 chapters away from the ending, I just said "screw it" and simply read last page of every chapter. Seriously. 6 years in writing, over a THOUSAND pages and the plot advances by five baby steps? TDWD is extremely disappointing.  PS: It's sad to admit that I'm more excited about second season of HBO series than about the next book.
If you have read all the previous books, expect another AFFC in term of general plot development and satisfying resolutions (not much). If you are new to the series I can only recommend to wait at least till the next book or even better till the end of the series.  First three books were great and I would recommend them to anyone who has nothing to read, because they are very good by themselves. The last two volumes - "A Feast for Crows" and "A Dance with Dragons" are not that great. Almost nothing is really happening to move the plot ahead. You can get through them on a momentum gained from the first books, but if the series are never finished (Martin began to write them in 1991, so do your math) it will be just a waste of time and a source of disappointment.
I loved the first three books in this series, but it took a turn for the worse in book #4 AFFC.  Unfortunately book #5 ADWD was also pretty disappointing.  Not enough progress in the main plots, while entirely too much time spent on extraneous story arc's, and painfully tedious chapters describing minute details of characters we have little reason to care about.  I had hoped ADWD would be a return to what I liked about this series but ended up being more frustrated and don't really see myself buying book 6 until the whole series is finished and I can get them all for bargain basement pricing, and just skim over all the meaningless stuff.
The story is wonderful of course. But you should know that this particular edition has no illustrations whatsoever. I was looking for a hardcover illustrated edition for my 6yo. Disappointed.
I have to agree with pretty much most of the other low rated comments. The book is mush, it is mostly filler, and is a pretty big waste of time. As someone else pointed out, they could have combine A Feast for Crows and Dance with Dragons, kept the book to 500-600 pages and made a decent book. However they cut it into two 1000ish page jumble-fests that left you wanting on both ends. Even with the big cliff hangers he tries to lure you to continue with, I have lost nearly all interest in continuing this series.
I am wondering: is GRRM "over his head" with this series after the 3rd book? Or is he just lazy and greedy? How and why did editor(s) let it happen? Like going to the restaurant, ordering your favorite dish, and after two-hour long waiting the waitress brought you something inedible... What would you do in that case?  5 interesting chapters out of 73! Unbelievable.  Next book, if I live to see it written/published (I am 36 right now), I will borrow at my library. No way I am going to buy it.  Tags: boredom, drivel, disappointment.
It was outstanding I mean what a story man I liked the kind of character Mrs March was and also Amy and Margret  And by the way my rating is not 2 stars but 4 stars
1/3 of the way into the book I realized that the story was going nowhere, and Martin just keeps throwing one-dimensional characters into the mix to flesh out pages.  A MAJOR disappointment, I wouldn't bother buying it.
Oh NO...this was starting to feel like Robert Jordan's "wheel of time" and now officially is..every page has a menu, food problem, clothes change,(no hair pulling yet) and not much else..  I won't read the last books until they all come out...maybe. This lost series really makes me appreciate the Harry Potter series. Stories should move forward, characters should learn SOMETHING of value.  What a huge disappointment.. Two stars for Tyrion..  good luck to all who start hope you can finish
George R.R.Martin can write but at this point most readers are ready for a bit of resolution and progression, which doesn't take place in this volume. Danny still has not learned to control her dragons, still has not invaded. Tyrion still has not met Danny. Arya's still training. The people at the Wall still are not fighting the Others. It feels like too many stills as the plots crawl towards a resolution without achieving it.  There is plenty of sailing and the trademark detail of Martin, but at this point it feels like a case of get on with it, dude.
Short and sweet - still love the series but it seems like lots of pages that don't move the plot forward.  It is starting to feel more and more like the Wheel of Time series which we all know ground to a halt.  Hopefully Mr. Martin will not die before he completes the series.  I first gave this a 3 for its OK but downgraded to a 2 as I realized I didn't like it.
Let's face it. The series we fell in love with is dead and gone. Martin had given us another long ponderous tome with no plot advancement and cheap cliffhangers.
When and if a new book in this series comes out, I'll wait for it to be available at the library, if I even bother. This book covered so many characters, most of whom I did not remember or care about. It is a continuation of book 3 and runs in parallel to book 4. Book 3 came out eleven years ago, which is too long for me to remember. This book does not wrap anything up and Martin has an annoying habit of killing the few major characters we actually care about.
Clearly Martin has lost the passion for this story.  Actually found myself skimming pages to get to the next part, and I'm a patient reader ....  What a shame.  I don't think one can be the "American Tolkien" without actually finishing the tale, and with this book I'm feeling like the tale may never be finished ... this installment seems to have been sheer drudgery for Martin to write.  The earlier books let you feel like you were there ... the scenes in this one seem more like sketches with shorthand references thrown in.
Quantity does not mean quality and in this case it has been left on the counter for days before passed along to the customer.  (It would have gotten 1 star except c'mon, props for a heroic "little person")
disappointing. There may be a bunch of good reviews from people whom only got into this series AFTER the HBO show, but i was into it before and i haven't even seen the show so this comes the the perspective of a fan/reader of the series. You only get more upset because it takes Martin s damn long between books to get the next one out, lol. And the last i heard the next book is nothing more than a collection of backstories. Don't even know if i'm going to even bother with that. hell, he takes so long between book releases i might not even bother. You'd think being a successful writer he'd know not to take so long between book, but i guess he's enjoying making all that money from bandwagon fanboys of his HBO series. Thanks for screwing your readers for your tv show, Martin, lol. Anyways, buy it only if you're a fan of the series. Even then, don't say i didn't warn you.
Once again we see another major writer joining the likes of Robert Jordan and Piers Anthony whose early triumphant books hooked us into suffering later unimaginative novels with no internal plots which creep the epic story arc in soap opera fashion. This book accomplished little other than shuffling the locations of the characters a bit, creating more Targaryens (how many do we really need?), and killing off another Stark (he keeps him alive for 4 books THEN kills him?).  Dance with Dragons had no internal story arc and nothing even resembling an ending.  At the pace Martin is going he will take at least 3 more books to finish the Ice and Fire storyline, and at 4 years per novel, he should take a lesson from Robert Jordan: STOP working on other writings , prequels, and game systems or your epic may outlive your own lifespan.
Really? Others here have summed up my sentiments in fabulous detail so I will just say, if you just have to read more of this story, you'll enjoy the book. If you are looking for resolution, completion or the storyline to pick up....well that isn't going to happen. I just don't need a list of 200 characters that mean nothing to me nor do I want to keep jumping around the countryside without an end game. Story lines are too broken, seem to be forgotten or lost and serously I am too! I feel a little ripped off...like I got pulled into an amazing series, and then the author decided to just keep writing but forgot where he was going, or that there needs to be an ending soon. But by now all the characters worth following are dead,absent,or just doing strange unrelated things. Wake me when it's over which I guess will be in another 5 years from now. Oh hummmm.
I think this book is a touching story of a mother and her kids trying to live happy romance and more. Mother got what she wanted a grand child and even though they never became rich they were rich in love affection and happiness.
I had trouble keeping the girls  apart and after reading for a while found myself bored. I did not finish it.  But I do not read a lot.
I believe this book was written for ten-year-olds. In the beginning I hoped the childish writing was an attempt to duplicate the conversation and thought processes of children, since the story begins with two very young sisters. The style never changed as the characters aged and I quickly skipped to the final chapter to verify my guess that the ending was written in the same style as the first chapters. The entire book must have been aimed at the pre-teen market.
Changed way too much of the story. I'm okay with abridging it but that shouldn't mean that two key storylines are changed (Beth and Amy). Very disappointed.
This is a book that just beats you over the head again and again with moral instruction; as a result, I found it to be just barely readable (especially the first half).  To be fair, I could imagine grownups wanting their children to read this- especially since the parents in this story (and two of the four sisters) are so cloyingly perfect that they make Biblical heroes seem like gangsters in comparison.  But I personally found it to be unappealing.  It is basically a bland story of bland girls obeying blandly likable authority and doing well by doing so.  In a sense, it is kind of the anti-Huck Finn. (In The Adventures of Huckelberry Finn, the title character grows morally by trying to free a slave, essentially battling authority).
I realize this book was free -- good deal! But, I selected this book to read outloud to a woman in a nursing residence who cannot see good enough to read herself.  Her hearing is also an issue.  Therefore, I read loudly.  The errors in spelling make the flow of reading aloud difficult.  Otherwise, it gets the point across.  My mom read this book to me when I was little, and therefore wanted to share it.
Not for Calculus 2-3!!!!!!!!!
It's not bad in the way that it gets you what you need, but man is it overkill. There are so many problems and examples in this class, and a lot of it is easy. If you're a scientist, do you really need to do 100 problems on limits and derivatives to get the hang of it? If you do, you're probably in the wrong field. So it's a bit too dumbed down, however the explanations are pretty decent and the arguments are rigorous enough until you get to the multivariable section and then things can be a bit fluffy and padded. I wouldn't recommend this to future scientists. It's too much work, too long, and also not fully rigorous enough to meet the needs of a modern scientist.
I got my book on the exact shipping date. But I received the worst quality of textbook. The pages are falling out, and overall the textbook is beat up
I know there is a lot of content, but the textbook companies need more examples and better online tools. Spending this kind of money and getting a color upgrade from 80s and 90s and maybe slightly upgraded examples is a poor reason for a new edition. I don't know if this is even the most recent one. You're obviously buying for a class, so rent or buy used. Itll be good for 2 or 3 semesters, depending on your school. Buy new if you need the code. Amazon rentals are super cheap and easy, by the way.
Great book if you already know Calc, terrible if you are learning for the first time. I am sorry if your school picks this as their textbook of choice.
You can download a digital copy for as little as 6$. This textbook likes to generalize and give formulas for things that don't need them, overcomplicating things. I only use mine because the teacher assigns the homework problems from the textbook, the eBook would've worked just fine for me.
The only other comparable book which I have worked with as a student is Briggs and Cochran.  Comparably, I would consider Briggs and Cochran slightly better.  The reasoning for my low mark on this review is that many times, the examples in the book skip steps and make representations prior to previous chapters without citation.  Without the citation and skipped steps, it is a arduous search for how the examples are solved.  Additionally, the examples are case specific and do not work related to overall theorem.  In addition, it loses a star for working with Webassign. If the book itself was taught with incorporating online homework through Webassign, an understanding of the material would likely reach to a much greater degree. However, it is a cop out tool for lazy or overburdened instructors.
First of all I would have never rented this book if I knew that I wouldn't be able to access the practice exercises. This book only has examples and does not contain problems you can do on your own. I have the Hybrid edition and in order to access the problems you must have a login key for the webassign site. Do not get this book if you are required to do practice problems. I see now why it was so cheap to rent.
It was not the whole book
I feel compelled to write a review on all these different versions of GOOD WIVES.  This is good literature, but there is no reason to buy this book if you're planning to read LITTLE WOMEN, as every copy of LITTLE WOMEN contains these chapters.  LITTLE WOMEN is divided into "Part First" and "Part Second," and GOOD WIVES = "Part Second."
As another reviewer noted, THIS IS NOT A SEQUEL TO LITTLE WOMEN.  I pulled out my copy of Little Women, and the chapters in Good Wives are exactly the same as the second half of the book Little Women.  If that wasn't clear:  my copy (and every copy I remember) of Little Women contains "Part First" and "Part Second."  GOOD WIVES = "Part Second."  I can't think of any reason to buy this book.  However, the book LITTLE WOMEN is great, and I can think of a million reasons to buy it!  (I hate giving anything Louisa May Alcott wrote only 2 stars--but those are for the packaging, not the text.)
FAST & ACCURATE
If you just need a Calculus book to study from on your own, don't chose this one. The material isn't well present, nor does it make it easy to understand. My friend gave me her book by Larson & Edwards. Sooo much better.
The cover was really dirty.
The book cover was extremely gross and dirty. The white cover was completely grey
Little Women is very like The Brady Bunch. In its time, everybody knew it was sugary-sweet and unrealistic. (Including, and especially, Alcott.) It still dared to tackle subjects previously taboo. (For Little Women, it was daring to show girls with personalities, for Brady Bunch, it was new to show blended families.)  The world was never like this--even Alcott's own life was not.  She idealized a miserable childhood into something that would sell: a noble, genteel poverty that conveniently appeals to today's nostalgiacs.  If you enjoy that, great. Just keep some perspective.  Belongs in classes studying how literature has changed.
I got the textbook in really poor condition but it did its job. not too happy with this rental.
I found this version to be very trite and the voices did not match the depth of the characters.  I was quite disappointed compared with other audiobooks that I have listened to.
This is a great book, and my favorite part of Little Women.  It covers the part when Jo goes to New York and meets Professor Bhaer.  However, when I ordered "Good Wives" I thought it was a sequel that I hadn't read before.  Instead I found that it was a poorly bound and poorly copied (e.g. faint print that's hard to read) copy of Part II of the book Little Women.  If you have the novel Little Women you already have "Good Wives."  I sat the books down side by side and compared them, and they are identical.  I'm confused why everyone is referring to this as a sequel to Little Women, unless perhaps when Little Women first came out it ended when the father came home from the war, and maybe Part II was originally printed in a separate volume?  However, every copy I've ever picked up of Little Women nowadays already has Part II in it, so if you have Little Women I'd advise you not to waste your money on this.
This calculus books have its pro and cons. The pros is that it has a lot of exercise to practice the cons is that is confusing and doesn't seem to offer a clear explanation of what calculus is. This book was written for Mathematician and not for students
"Take care my skirt don't trip you up..."  "Don't Meg pull fair?"  "Oh, yes she tries to but she don't love Bethy as I do..."  If you're looking for a copy of Little Women with lots of colorful illustrations don't buy this copy there are none.  If you're looking for a copy with extra information about the author don't buy this one there's only a very short paragraph at the end about Louisa May Alcott that comes after the 15 "book discussion" type questions that are not very useful to an independant reader.  I was not impressed with the wording of this Sterling Publishing edition of this beloved children's classic. I've read other editions of Little Women and don't remember the word don't being used so poorly throughout the novel as it was in this edition. Are these the original words of Louisa May Alcott or don't people know how to use proper English back in the 1860's?
I did not receive the same edition. I was able to find the one I needed on PDF format but this was not the same book I needed. Although the chapters and materials were the same the problems were not. I will also be unable to sell the book back using my store because this edition has no bar code.
I don't like it just because it's calculus, but overall it was a good quality of book
I don't like the way it describes concept
I found Little Women okay, but a bit boring at times. There was absolutely no humor and I frankly didn't care what happened to the very unreal characters. The four sisters were too different to be actually related and Beth was too much of an angel. At the end of the novel, I did not find that I was attached to any of the characters.  The book did not give me any emotional satisfaction and there were too many plots going at once.  However, I will give some points to the quality of the plot. It was very realistic and surprising. Set during and after the Civil War, the March sisters(Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy)struggle to grow up and, if not conquer, at least suppress their worst faults.  In short: This is an okay book, but I would never reread it.  Recommended instead: Anne of Green Gables series(characters are much more satisfying)
I really don't know what the hype is over this book.  Its considered a classic, yet, it is boring reading.  I didn't find any of the characters of any interest and the pace is slow.
I bought this edition of Little Women for my niece. I chose this edition because the product description mentions margin notes that provide a historical perspective. There are no margin notes! You get the great, classic story, of course, but the description is inaccurate. There are several illustrations, but be warned that the margin notes do not exist.
This book represents expects you to be proficient at reading technical, dense mathematical literature. It presents calculus in the most boring way possible and is terribly overpriced. The sad thing is James Stewart has made millions off of this garbage.
One HUGELY HUGELY helpful thing I found was [...].  I was REALLY struggling through Calc 101 (online course), and having a hard time understanding.  It was making me feel like a moron...and the web assign that goes along with this book is not all that helpful.  If you are new to calc, go to that website I swear.  It makes things SO easy.  This book does an ok job, but not like that website.  I wish I'd known about it from the beginning.  I really wish that I had the choice of a book that did a better job of explaining and maybe had a little more hand holding.
The seller sent me an international version, but I ordered a non-international version. However, the seller said that the book is same as original, but it is not exactly the same. Some of the exercise problems are totally different! This is very bad for me because my professor needs me to do the homework with the same exactly question.
If you are mathematically inclined and you understand pretty much everything from lecture, then the problems in this book will give you the practice you need to succeed. However, if you need clarifying of concepts or miss a lecture, good luck. I went through Calc I with this book and never once opened it except to do the homework because I had an awesome professor. However, in Calc II, I find myself needing to refer to the text and not being able to find any examples that pertain to my assignment problems.
A very unclear book. The book is dense, visually terrifying and lacks clear examples. Stewart throws in so many new concepts and formulas without examples so students have no idea what's going on. Very dry book
I would say buyer beware, this copy of the text book ended at chapter 11, a whole 3 chapters before the end of my calc ii course! So this will not even cover the material for calc iii!
This book was so disappointing to me. I never realized how incredibly helpful a good textbook would be until I took Biology using the notable Campbell textbook. Having a good book to study from makes ALL the difference, especially when you have a terrible professor teaching something as challenging as Calculus. Stewart's book explains concepts well in the beginning chapters covering limits and simple derivatives. However, explanations about critical points, Mean Value Theorem, angle maximization, etc. were written is such a confusing way the material made little to no sense and forced me to search for a better text (which I still have not found). Unless you've got a near solid understanding of Calc I recommend staying away from this book because it'll only make things harder for someone barely getting through the first few chapters.
I'm sorry to write such a negative review. I'm sure if I were more knowledgeable to both trigonometry and calculus, I'd give this textbook (Single Variable Calculus: Early Transcendentals) by James Stewart a better rating. As for a new student to calculus, this is no way to attain the skill. I'm crawling on all four and at a snail's pace. This is extremely difficult to grasp for students who have very little trigonometry and calculus knowledge. Be warned.
Tedious. Too involved. The characters are good, but the plot is way too involved for enjoyable reading.not one of my favorites.
I had taken Calc I using Swokowski but couldn't finish the course because of military duty. I restarted the course, this time using Stewart. This text does a poor job of explaining concepts and just gives conclusions. Sometimes the author uses an exclamation point to indicate an "Aha" moment, but there is no Eureka from his conclusory leaps in explaining, for example, how to use delta and epsilon to define a limit. These are concepts I'd already learned, but I constantly find myself going back to my old Swokowski text and seeing, Oh, that's what Stewart is trying to explain! (Here use of the exclamation point is appropriate.)
I am genuinely baffled by the degree of devotion this book still inspires based on the reviews at this site.  I remember trying this book as a girl and disliking it; I gave it another try now on vacation, at the age of 47.  I still dislike it.  The characters are caricatures and speak in stilted dialogue unlike that of any real people--much less interesting people.  Don't misunderstand--I like good nineteenth century novels.  In fact, I love Dickens, Trollope, the Brontes, George Eliot, Mrs. Gaskell, etc.  This book is a pale imitation of those--a mere period piece.
too much coincidences.. I do not like this kind of mysteries.. it happened 20 years ago and everyone involved remembers every detail brightly.. come on!
I rented this book because I thought it will provide the WebAssign Access Card but when I got it, it's not there.
I did, at age 8 or so, though, re-reading it today, I find itrather grim and dull. Also, as I learnt some years ago in my teachingdays, this is not a book to be used in the classroom. It is best savedfor long winter days, when reading a chapter can be a daily visit withappealing friends. Much of it is way too puritanical for mytaste. Daughters cannot so much as have their rare good breakfast onChristmas Day, and presents need to be sacrificed because how can oneenjoy oneself when soldiers are not? But the characters are oftenvivid, and the relationships between the sisters are quiterealistic. That said, it does tend to be a winner. The very youngtend to focus on the fun parts rather than the New Englandcongregationalist preaching ... don't spoil it for them, at the youngage, by telling them just why the Alcotts, on whom this work wasbased, were the "poor" outcasts in the wealthyneighbourhood.  END
I hate to say it but this is a book designed primarily for women. I am a male and I would have to refrain from calling it a classic as it failed to  cross the sexual divide. The characters are well developed and undoubtedly  you care for the four children and their mother especially. The girl's  lovers are unfortunately less developed as characters and they come across  as prissy men. The plot is overlong and unexciting. Is there even a plot?  However the plot of Emma was also non-existant but the writing had an edge  to it that dismissed any boredom. Unfortunately boredom can creep in while  reading this tale. The death of one main character seemed to drag on and on  and on... Am I the only person in the world who rejoiced upon reading that  the girl had passed on. "About bloody time!" I cried. I thought  about giving this book a solid three stars but that would have been too  generous. It is regarded as a classic but to me it was a sentimental piece  of rubbish. 2 generous stars
I have taken several college math classes and I have to say I HATE HATE HATE this book. The only reason I am giving it two stars is because of the online homework system. Webassign is amazing. Unlike MyMathLab it offers videos and online 24/7 tutors.
Re the $200+ list price for the latest editions of James Stewart's Calculus book:  $200 for a calculus book is insane and obscene (as is $191.36, Amazon's current list price.) Other than prettier graphics and a few exercises to show how calculators and computers can mess with you, the subject hasn't changed significantly since the work of Cauchy and Weierstrass almost 200 years ago.  While the architecture of James Stewart's new $24M house is cool and its use as a performance space is to be lauded, it was built on the backs of millions of poor students forced to pay extortionist prices for old news. Granted that the pressure to produce superfluous new editions came mostly from his publisher, he went along in exploiting those students.  Let's hope he sleeps well.
I have read better mysteries. In this book, the story develops very slowly and some details are repeated for every character in the story. The mystery was very average in this book.
The book is not helpful to me because the way the author explain makes it hard to understand. Moreover, the book did not show step by step for me to understand. It skipped steps most of the times. I guess the author assumed that students who buy the book would already know how to solve the problems without showing all steps.
the book itself is good but I believe it does not go in to depth in explaining its sort of "do it on your own" type of book. Its doesnt really help me much but it is a required text so Ill do what i can to understand it.
The product description on the page clearly states: Print Replica: This Kindle book looks just like the printed book Length: 600 pages  And I immediately think to myself: oh neat, this is much less expensive than the hardcover version. I purchase it... lo and behold: The Kindle version is actually only 462 pages long (only going up to chapter 6). Apparently there is a Kindle volume 2... I just need to shell out another $100 to purchase that one as well. In any case, it would be been better to stick with the hardcover version and save myself the headache.
I bought this study guide thinking, it would help me with extra problems that I didn't get while reading the book, but it's more general than the book examples and is not very specific. If  you want to get the basic idea of each chapter, this study guide won't be so bad. However, if you're a student trying to do well in a class this book won't be any help to you. Might as well just do chapter review and ask the teacher whatever you don't know because you surely won't get it using this study guide.
I find this book too large, it's superficial but I prefer smaller, portable books. There is no reason to have a book this large. Also It covers about 2 years of calculus!!! Make it into two books at least! I hate carrying about a book that contains multivariate calc, vector calc, etc when I'm studying elementary integration!!! The pictures are good, tonnes of problems to solve. Most trivial. Also it has decent examples.  But ultimately I judge a book by how much I use it. And I NEVER used this book except for assigned questions.
Got this text for a Calculus class but found it nearly impossible to teach myself with this text. As other reviewers mentioned, this text is NOT for beginners as it lacks sufficient examples and explanations. However, if you're somewhat familiar with Calculus and Trigonometry then this should work for you. The only thing good about this book was the price!
WARING!!! Do not under any Circumstances by this book believing that it will suit you better, IT WILL NOT, unless demanded by your instructor of course. I bought this book believing that I was making the right choice, I was horribly wrong and sadly disapointed. I have never in my life held a math book with NO EXERCISES/QUESTIONS and it is absolutly THE SINGLE DUMBEST THING I HAVE EVER HEARD OF IN MY LIFE. This book is like a bad joke, it doesn't give you any warning that it doesn't have the most crutial part of any textbook, instead it offers a subscription to WebAssign, which indepently I find to be a good program, but in this case is awful. Soley because UNLESS YOUR INSTRUCTOR HAS SET UP YOUR COURSE, online, YOU CANNOT ACCESS ANY PART OF THE PROGRAM, only because you do not have a course code. Overall this book is half-ass because it provides a half-ass learning capacity. If this is the one specified by your instructor take it, if not, STAY THE HELL AWAY FROM THIS BOOK AND GET THE REGULAR EDITION!!!!!!!!!
I purchased this book for my calculus two class. I tried to sign up on webassign and it still made me purchase the the access code online. I was very disappointed and it cost me an extra 75$. Other than that the book was in perfect condition.
the book i received was the correct book but as i started getting deeper in the book i started to notice moisture damage throughout the books pages, so i called amazon customer service up and they sent me a replacement
When buying this book, you must know that this is a hybrid version of the regular calculus book. It doesn't have any of the practice problems, so when homework is assigned to you you don't have them (unless your class has a class key where its all online). Unless your teacher tells you to buy the hybrid version, this hybrid version is difficult. But the delivery was fast, and the book was brand new.
Use caution if you are thinking of ordering this paperback "hybrid" edition instead of the hardback. This version does not include chapter end problems - you must go online to access them. If your professor plans to use the webassign.net system and has the login codes you need, I think you'll be fine. But if not, you won't have the problems he/she assigns from the book.
I ordered this book "Calculus 7th edition Early Transcendentals" but I was shipped the book "Calculus 7th edition." This has caused conflict in my calculus class and I just can't believe that even when I typed in the ISBN, I was sent the WRONG BOOK! It was also not a hardcover book, but rather two paperback books.
Don't buy this book unless it's required for your course. Even then, if you can copy problems, you might as well just watch videos my Patrick JMT.  The book seems to love to explain things by the method of incomprehensible proof after incomprehensible proof with lots and lots of symbols that have hardly been used or introduced at all in quick succession.  You'll find that if you do use the book, it will just be to look at the boxed formulas, which, if put together would comprise less than 1 page of writing per multi-page chapter.
The book is kind of hard to understand, it doesn't really give clear-cut examples on how to solve the problems.
Product was advertised as Like New but arrived with bent corners, flimsy spine, crumbled pages, and possibly something spilled on the front. Very disappointing. Falsely advertised.
It's not a good book. Not very good at explaining topics and concepts.  Some of the problems are taught in the lessons.
First time taking calculus - this book made it a disaster.  I'll give the author one thing, he is a smart guy.  However it seems as though Stewart has forgotten how difficult it is to learn this material.  Explanations are wordy and overcomplicated, and example problems are constantly missing important steps.  In addition, homework problems are almost undoable.  My first assignment for calculus 2 (using the second half of the book) took six hours to complete with two other friends because we just couldn't wrap our brains around the concepts.  The only reason this review has two stars instead of one is because of the useful integral table in the back and an attractive cover design.  Beyond that, prepare to be lost.
For the list price the Kindle edition needs to have a technical editor. There are far too many errors to follow the material in a math course. If you already have a physical copy or know this subject very well and want to have a text reference just to refresh your memory this might work. However the price is higher than a used copy at my college bookstore and it needs a greatly expanded table of contents to help compensate for the slow page navigation that you get with a Kindle.  Stewart Calculus 6E is a good book and the problems cover the subject matter well. The introduction also nicely covers material necessary for starting a calculus course.
I thought i wrote the review already,  but amazon wants me to review it again..... hmmm, it's a good price for this book, but the seller should tell me the book is molded on the website.....
book was in bad condition, spine falling apart, and tremendous wear while you put "good" on the condition.
Not a very good Textbook! The Examples given aren't very helpful with later problems in the same section. If you are required to use this book, i would highly suggest you get some supplemental help from other texts and/or join/create a study group and/or get lots of help from T.A.s or a tutor.
I ordered this book new from Amazon and was expecting it to be, in fact, in new condition. However, I was disappointed. The binding was worn away on the front cover as if someone had picked away at it. There are now ugly ridges on the front cover. The rest of the book is in great condition, but I was not expecting there to be any damage. The only reason I can't return it is that I need to use it.
I bought this book mainly for a reference.  Looking through it, it seems to be like most all upper level math books -not very user friendly! Why do these over-educated math nerds who write these books make them sooo hard to follow!?!? Although I can solve the problems in this book, I cant figure out why it is written on such a level to where the average person would have difficulty in learning calculus! I do not recommend this book except for reference only!
This book is written for those intending to move onwards in math, rather than those who are learning calculus for practical purposes.  In general, the book is not user-friendly and at times throws in "points of interest" about math and calculus that are not labeled well, and can thus confuse/ distract the reader.  The book does not contextualize what it attempts to teach and as a result, forces the reader to skim a chapter to understand the general thrust and conclusion, before attempting a detailed reading.  I do not know of better calculus books, but for one inclined to search, this is not the one at which to stop.
This is not a very good Calculus book.  I used Larson's book for single variable Calculus and it is much better.  Since I transferred schools I was stuck with this book for multivariable Calculus and it sucks.
I've had to use this book in a Calculus for Engineers course, and it is very difficult to learn from for someone who has no prior knowledge of Calculus.  The examples in the book barely prepare a person at all for the accompanying practice problems.  Around 2/3rds of the problems require applications that were not addressed at all in the examples.  In addition, the answers to the odd problems in the back of the book are of no help in understanding how an answer was arrived at.  Because of this, it is not uncommon to have to spend 2-3 hours trying to understand how to do the practice problems that accompany a 3-4 page section of the book, simply because the book suffers from poor presentation and design.
I gave up trying to read the chapters after the first chapter, it was so technical and theoretical it confused me more than anything. Instead, I got the Complete Idiots Guide to Calculus; Dummies Guide wasn't as good for most topics -- but the Dummies Guide has a fantastic workbook, I use that. Also, there's a great Calculus DVD tutorial by Jason Gibson they sell here that's just super, The Calculus 1 & 2 Tutor, I'd highly recommend it. I'm getting a strong B in the class, it's good enough, and I leave the textbook to collect dust until I sell it back.
Calculus is not a difficult subject but this book makes it difficult and confusing. I have to consult other resources in order to do well in class:
THIS BOOK READS LIKE IT WAS WRITTEN BY A MATH LAWYER!!!  The text is confusing and way too redundant.  The sample problems are well-explained, but they're a setup for the homework problems to make you feel stupid. I bought this overpriced book, the solutions manual, and the study guide...I feel screwed.  If you are taking a class that requires this book.....DROP IT!!
I bought this book in order to self-teach, and many of the examples were confusing and seem to assume the reader already has a strong background in calculus. I then went ahead and took a calc I class that used Larson's Early Transcendentals, which was much clearer and easier to follow. My calc II class used Stewart's text, but since the homework was uncollected I just skimmed Stewart's text while doing the homework out of Larson's text since it was a better educational tool for me, and I got A's in both calc classes I took.  I did, however, go back to Stewart's text and solutions manual to get some additional practice doing proofs. It provided plenty of practice problems, but its explanations were not helpful to me because they tended to skip steps.
I've been a student at the University of Delaware. I have taken the engineering calc course 3 times - third time i finally passed - every class used the same book!  I am now taking calc 242 which is the next calc course - it is VERY difficult. Most of my friends i have asked did not pass this course on their first try.  This book STINKS - it does NOT have enough examples to make it understandable to eningeering students
This book tends to complicate the subjects compare to other calculus book. For Calculus I or II, it might be bearable. But the mulivariable part of this book is the WORST ever. It makes the theorem extremely difficult to understand. Frequently, the problems given are extremely hard and long (3 - 4 pages of work), such as verifying the Stokes' theorem. And it DOESN'T have the solution in the back. (odd nor even problems) If you want to challenge yourself on those problems, go on. But if you are a regular student who just need to get an A or B in the course, stay away from it.
Having completed a two semester college introductory course in differential and integral Calculus based on M. Spivak's book, a browse through Stewart's Calculus left me with a somewhat sour taste of mouth. Practically no demonstrations of theorems; little reference to basic analysis, which some people consider THE most important difference between a great Calculus course and a run of the mill one. If anything, this is a good book on learning how to use the tools provided by Calculus, but without an adequate focus on the subject itself. I could have grudgingly given three stars, had it not been for the absurdly high price. Definitely not worth it.
far from his best
I thought that this book was quite slow moving. After spending quite a while introducing the characters, it finally started to get really good about three-quarters of the way through. If you are a fan of Catherine Gaskin, you should read this, if not, there are other books to read.
I did not finish this book because of the profanity.  I know war has its vulgarities, but I choose not to read books with "R" rated language.
I recommend this book to any reader who thrives on translating unfamiliar dialects, word-by-word. I wish the author would re-write this book sans dialects. Before I gave up the struggle, I knew he had a story worth telling. If you're a Scot, ignore this.
The author chose to use the British colloquial accents, phonetically, which was as difficult to read as if it were in German. This book was obviously written for the British reader, but the American reader would spend a goodly portion of his time trying to pronounce words and phrases and than understand the entire sentence. The Burma campaign is all but foreign to the American public, more so than the history of the Eastern Front during WWII. We obviously have not given credit to our allies, especially when we have a General MacArthur in the vicinity. There are better books on the Burma campaign written for the American reader.
Quartered Safe Out Here was far from the best personal accounts of participation in WWII.  It does not hold a candle to Eugene Sledge's, With the Old Breed.  Quartered is slow moving, without much real action.  Much of the action in the campaign seems to take place on other fronts, and this is mostly about "camp life".
I ordered a brand new copy of the book, but when I opened my package the corners of the book were severely damaged(bent). I couldn't return it either, because I had to use the book to do my homework. The explainations were verbose, the contents seemed unorganized, and lacked examples of the concepts. I wasn't very happy with this book, and ended up looking the material up online, instead of using the book. I do not recommend this book.
Honestly a very badly written textbook. I've taken a large variety of higher level mathematics courses and this has got to be the worst textbook I have had to work with. If you are looking for a good textbook to teach a solid understanding of ODEs, this is not the book for you. Explanations are long winded and confusing, use confusing language which is not clearly explained, and contain no clear examples which will aid in solving the practice problems at the end of every section. This book is not worth the money, save it and get something else.
I don't understand why they take so many steps which could be easily represented in the form of an equation and put them into sentence form. It makes this book impossible to understand at times. I can learn more by taking random problems and letting wolfram of symbolab show me the steps.
I took a first-semester ODE course in which we used this book. Man, it was painful. The book takes the simplest concepts and stretches them to 12 or 16 pages. The book's systematic lack of boxed formulae and algorithms makes it very hard to get a concrete knowledge of the subject. Instead, the student is left pouring through page after page of text trying to discern the facts. Mathematics texts should be crisp, clear, and factual. But this book is almost like diff eq for humanities majors. The standard methods of separation of variables, integrating factors, locating perturbation values, and the method of undetermined coefficients are described in vague terms without necessary detail. I found it very difficult to gain lasting knowledge from this book.
I did not receive the DE Tools Printed Access Card. The book in general is also much more qualitative than I would have liked. It has very little material on actual numerical and analytical analysis of differential equations.
The variety of colors were great.  I owned this lighting with remote 14 months total and within the 10th month I lost all use of the remote , in which changing the CR2025 battery proved useless. So I used the switch on the plug; but that too became faulty after 6 weeks and finally the lights just went dim and barely light up in all colors until it finally stuck on red.  I got a new one and this is shameful the product couldn't last longer when not submerged underwater the usage period.
This Bible is very large but not very thick. It reminds me of a paperback textbook from childhood. The print is VERY small. New Testament books are in the wrong order. The pages are not like normal bible pages they are like regular printer paper. Very unhappy!
There is no book of Acts....I was trying to study with a few brothers yesterday, tried pulling up the menu and long behold the complete works is missing.
I know The song book is good since I have purchased it before and was happy, this time however  I am still waiting for them to arrive.
I guess you get what you pay for.  The "imitation leather" was horribly cheap;  the paper was like newspaper; the description was incorrect in that there is no summary introduction for each book as the picture showed there to be; no ribbon page markers.
I was looking for the NEW King James version of the Bible, which is what this is advertised as.  It is the OLD King James Version. Buyer beware!
My review is not about the bible but the manner in which it was delivered. I bought this bible as a gift for a friend; upon arrival, the package was open and the bible cover was very rough.
Difficult to navigate through.
This has a modern Roman font with modern spellings of words. It does not not contain the Apocrypha. Its width makes it look like it's a replica/facsimile with the original typesetting, but it's not.
Really disappointed. Very hard to navigate between books and chapters.
In the past I enjoyed the books of few cozy British writers, like M C Beaton, Rhys Bowen or Emily Brightwell. So, I can honestly say that even if my preferance lays in the gritty, edgy crime writing, I am not an unfair judge of the English village subgenre. Unfortunately, this trite and predictable book follows every cliche possible, without even an obligatory attempt for originality and creativity. For once, in my compulsive mystery book buying, I stopped with the first in the series. Good bye Ellie Quicke.
I've loved the NKJV ever since it first came out. However this one doesn't seem to work properly on my paperwhite kindle. I can't figure out how to navigate to chapter and verse, and many attempts to navigate ANYWHERE cause my kindle to reset itself. The YouVersion NKJV, which I have on my phone, is also by Thomas Nelson and has none of these problems
I was not happy with the quality of this book. It was also blue, when the book is pictured as brown. It had a nasty cover on it and was not in the best shape.
If you are going to sell a writer's tool try review and edit your description. You missed the "an" space. On your keyboard it is the long rectangular button that may or may not have the word "space" on it. This word on the key might be capitalized. Press it to put space between words in a sentence.
I'm old school when it comes to dictionaries and thesaurus', I still prefer to use the big hardcover versions. With Roget's, I bought a used version that, with the exception of the faded, torn paper cover, is in fantastic condition.
I was hoping that there would be chapters and verse access within each book, but there isn't.
too small print
It said that it was the whole bible but I only have up to the prophet Jeremiah?? Disappointed!!
Difficult to use. Went with the Open Bible NKJV instead.
Meh...it's OK but a challenge to navigate easily on a tablet.
This 1611 kjv bible has annoying drawings in it and tons of stuff before you even get to the actual word of God, and then it is hard to even tell what book you are currently in. It isn't leatherback and it contains apocrypha.
Paper quality too thin. Can tear by flipping the pages.
I bought this bible because it said large print. The print is not large. Maybe it should have said medium print. I had to return it.
Difficult to navigate. Difficult to return to a page, once I've left and gone back. It works.
I read this as the leader for a group of Middle/High school students who were reading classics for the summer.  I had read this decades ago as a High School student...I wasn't as thrilled this time.  I followed the characters and the action of the book, but could not get as involved in the story as the young people did.
I was highly anticipating this Bible. Until it arrived. The print is way to small. That is my only grievance. So, I will be returning it, tomorrow the day after I received it.
The pages in this bible are practically see-through.  Want to look up a scripture - allow extra time to peel the pages apart.  Sent it back.
I purchased the 7th Edition in great expectation of greater revision being made  than the hardbound 5th edition  I have been using htherto. The result is that I have found yet no bit of revision at all. What a waste!
My 20 year Thomas Nelson bible is definitely better made than the one I purchased recently.  The edges are flaking off see attached photos and binder easily creases.  Decent price, reference material and maps are great , just cheaply made.
Hard to get into
Damaged front cover of Bible. No invoice inside box. Very disappointed.
I was so excited when this book came out. I loved JS Cooper's other books. I really have to say that if I did not pay money for this book I would have stopped reading it.  It felt like a child wrote this book.  The characters were so juvenile.
This online version of the King James Bible is not particularly user friendly. I found it difficult to navigate between different books of the Bible.
Loved the large print - nice Bilble - however did not like the center thing
The beginning was rather interesting, but then as it went on it got boring and hard to understand. That Scottish is hard to read!
Takes too long to find what I'm looking for. Waste time looking for word. Then you must find the section. Then choose one of words to continue your search.
Yes it did very happy with it.
I thought I was ordering the original classic but I got a very short, condensed children's version instead.
As the Word of God goes I'm sure the text is fine, but you can't bill a cover as "imitation leather" if it's actually card stock. The sharp edges are supremely uncomfortable to hold.
While this dictionary covers many Irish words, I most dislike it because it has NO pronunciations. It gives you all these wonderful Irish words, but no way to know how they're pronounced, unless you have a hefty grip on Irish pronunciations already. It is not a dictionary for beginners.
Made in China, which really dissapointed me. The bible doesn't use capitalized words when representing the Lord our Savior, or God the Father, such as him, he, or me etc.. overall quality and build is good, and the B&W pictures are very nice. Accuracy though means everything !!! Would have earned a 3 if it was made in USA, because again, accuracy is the highest priority of a bible, and caps of out God is another method of helping the reader read it more accurately. God Bless all, D.M.
The quality of the electronic version is OK and I generally like Stevenson, but I think I only need to read this book once.
Some people told me this is the best translation bible ever I disagree can even read it spelling is weird and they use old fash numbers like I II III IV V VI
It was some good fiction reading, there were a few plot holes and it was a bit unrealistic. Overall sub par read, would not read again. Directions unclear, I never got the big Mac I prayed for.
Pages started falling out after three weeks of using it 6 or 8 times.
It does not contain the New Testament.  I prefer a version that contains both the Old and the New Testaments.
It does not contain the New Testament.  I prefer a version that contains both the Old and the New Testaments.
The best way for you to know that you are not in any of my favorite song on repeat since yesterday
Found it hard to enjoy. The main characters are over described to the point of being like comic book characters. The events are too exagerated to be considered historical fiction.
Not easy to search at all.
This book is ponderous and not fun.  I wanted a history book, but ended up with the Canterbury Tales.  Not worth deciphering.
The words were so small couldn't see them very well I suggest the large print
only contains new testament.  no index
Although the story started and finished brightly it was a laborious read.  I'm a big fan of historical fiction and this appeared promising.  However, about a third of the way into the book I found the plot grew cold, the characters grew flat, and my overall enjoyment plummeted.  The writing style was awkward and clumsy; I trust the story reads better in its native language than English.  This story is intended to be a fun read but it needs a lot of editing and refactoring.  If the middle 50% could be edited out of this book, I could, despite the translation, give this a 3 stars.  As it is, I find the two stars overly generous.
Not what I expected.
I guess you get what you pay for, it is cheaply made.
Has fun aspects, with believable historic detail. However, the endless 'blood & swash' (to pull a quote from an old favorite move, "The Ghost & Mrs. Muir") gets a little tedious.
The e-book version contains many typos, hardly appropriate for the Word of God. The lack of quotation marks and capitalization of pronouns relating to God and Jesus hinder reader comprehension.
VERY POOR binding on cover to book pages. Excessive amount of glue used that seeped into the pages which makes it hard to open the book flat without damaging the pages or the binding. Pages are extremely thin where you can see the words on the other side of the page making it hard to see and read.  Can't use a highlighter to mark any passages, or write notes with a regular ball point pen as it all bleeds through to the other side of the page. I know that it wasn't an expensive bible but, I didn't think it was going to be that BAD!!! I don't think it will even last 6 months without falling apart. When I opened the box, I immediately noticed the fake leather cover was bent along the edges in several areas especially at the corners. Lesson learned, You shouldn't try to be cheap when it comes to the LORDS HOLY WORDS AND TEACHINGS....
This book is pretty good, but I could barely get through genesis, it was repetitive and did not hold my attention so I skipped ahead to the more exciting parts. Spoiler alert ! The main character Jesus Christ impregnated his mother to create himself? The twist at the end appears to be that he is the father of himself.
Easy to read classic but disappointed it isn't leather cover or hard cover. Pages flimsy and easily torn. Overpriced item when it's available free of charge through most Christian Organizations.
pages turned into binding was a mess
This book is not well written. Explanations are poor. Solution manual required for many questions throughout the book. You better get one. My book came with many notes written by previous users. Unfortunately students don't get to change the text for the class. There has got to be a better book for college level trig.
I rented this text book and returned it EXACTLY as it was received, I followed the instructions and returned it on time and I was charged the full purchase price. However I called Amazon and they reviewed it and made it right, I would use this service again bc they made it right  Greg
the words are too small
It was a book about Trig. If you have to buy it you have to. The issue with the Kindle Edition was there were no page numbers. This was a hindrance. Flipping through the pages on the kindle was a pain in the index too. Get a hard copy.
I have over 300 kindle books. I regret buying this textbook on kindle every single time I use it. It is simply aweful. No page numbers, the formulas and math symbols get shifted away from their text/problem numbers, the margin notes are just not included, nor are the calulator exercises, the video and electronic content are absent, the book was formatted for color and black and white make it difficult to follow in some areas. This is a barely usable converted format. skip it. For the price, it simply isn't worth it. You'll end up buying another ebook format, or getting a hard copy. Simply aweful, so bad I don't have the stomach to tell you all of the reasons I regret this purchase. Every. Time. I. Use. It.
This was not the textbook needed for the class.  This was an examination copy sent to teachers to look at so that they may decide to use the book in the class.  It is not always an exact copy of the textbook.  It also says do not sell on the cover at least five times.  I had to go out and find another copy of the book.
Bible itself seems pretty good but the outside is horrible. It doesnt seem very durrible and upon opening every edge was bent up. The outside feels cheaaply made. I was expecting a more durible feel instead it feels like the outside of a dollar store bible. I got this as a gift for my husband for Christmas and he liked it but there was no hiding the damage. Im disappointed in that.
This is the textbook for my college trigonometry class. I find it to be rather frustrating, as often, there are section review questions that are NOT covered by the examples, and often require different skills or formulas than you have learned in that section. I have had to google explanations several times when the book's explanation of a concept was inadequate.
great study book for the beginner
This volume is beautifully printed and bound, and even though its type is a little small, it's easy to read.  It has two problems, however, which are deal-breakers for me: first, its illustrations, though beautiful, are idolatrous and inappropriate, not only picturing Jesus, but in an extremely unlikely representation that perpetuates wrong ideas of Him.  Second, where a proper King James Bible has certain words italicized to indicate that they were added by the translators to make the English clearer and more grammatical, this edition does not distinguish between them and what was translated from the original languages.  For those reasons, I can't recommend this printing of the Bible.
Thought the prints were larger! Leaves are so thin!
Appears to be an adaptation of a basic digital version not exclusively for Kindle.
I was expecting chapter and verse, did  not have them
The print is so small.  I have good eyesight and struggled to read the print with ease.  Not recommended due to font size.
I thought the cover quality was poor. It was also slightly damaged (corners were worn). Returned and received full refund. Text was nice size. Easy to read.
Eh, after reading this book I'm left wondering how Christians have wandered so far from its teachings
not as thorough a re translation as I had hoped.
The bible was advertised as GIANT print. when we received it was maybe larger print. I have seen large print bibles with larger print than that I received.  The bible is great as a bible but useless as a large print bible.
2.5 stars. There was probably a ripping yarn in here somewhere, but it was buried under 19th century nautical vernacular and naval arcana. I kept digging and digging, but never found the pony.
The Bible was as described, but fragile. Spine broke as soon as I opened it. No flexibility left in cover.
very thin pages :(
You'll love this if you enjoyed the last half of Season 6 of LOST.
Don't like the style in which he writes.
All the words are there but the Hardback feels cheaply made. Not worth the extra money get the paperback.
The movie with Russell Crowe captured my imagination, so I wanted to read this series.  Reading was difficult and dissappointing.  I finished no more than one-third.  Perhaps I will try again when my patience allows.
As an ex Royal Navy officer and a lover of the sea and ships I was keen to find a new author who could match the excitement and pleasure of reading C.S. Forester's Hornblower novels.  While acknowledging the author's excellent research, despite several attempts at reading this and another of O'Brian's novels (The Wine Dark Sea) I confess that I found the pace to be turgid  and full of inconsequential detail, to the point of utter boredom.  I couldn't warm to the characters and although I tried to continue reading eventually I gave up about half way through.  I was very disappointed, in particular as so many other reviewers regard this author so highly.  Sadly, I cannot agree.
Nice historical book but not very linear. Enjoyed that the Herod also had flaws but overall found it a dull read
print too small
It was exactly what I wanted but we only a few weeks use some pages fell out and now it needs to be rebound
Different cover would have made a huge difference...
I was expecting a series of books like the "Hornblower" series by C.F. Forrester.  I have that whole series.  I won't be buying anymore of these by Parick O'Brian.  In Fact I gave this book to good will instead of keeping it.  Sorry but I just couldn't get interested in this book.
Not his best work but as a long-time F1 fan it was enjoyable.  I think when it first came out they talked about a movie but after 'Grand Prix' F1 had changed and this was not on.
Many unfamiliar naval terms.
The print is very small, I do not recommend.
THE LETTLES ARE TWO SMALL TO READ. I DON'T LIKE IT. I WILL NOT USE IT.
Master and Commander came highly recommended, especially the Audible version which I listened to. I pushed my way through it, but it just never truly caught my attention so I won't be picking up the next in the series.
Very difficult to read for me secondary to style and ancient nautical terms used.  May be authentic language for the time but just did not flow well enough to be a pleasant read.  I am only an ex-sailor and a doctor so it may just be me.  Story line interesting and many historical points brought out that were very educational.  Find the Hornblower series easier to read. Though there are fewer historical points contained in the story as compared to "Master and Commander," Hornblower has just the right amount of sailing terms and period venacular to keep it educational while still fun to read.
I made it through chapter 3 of the audible audiobook and gave up. No sign of a plot on the horizon, and a lot of rote reciting of things like "Articles of War". I love books about the Royal Navy of this period and have enjoyed the characters and writings of C. S. Forester, Dewey Lambdin, Julian Stockwin, etc. I was hoping to continue with Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series, but was bored to death after 3 chapters of fluff. I did see another's review that indicated that O'Brian's second in the series, "Post Captain" is way better, so I may try starting with that one.
Didn't care for it.
The series had been highly recommended, but it was just too difficult to read with all of the nautical terms
The book is listed as good.  It is closer to acceptable.  Very dark shading from sun damage. It also wasn't mentioned that the book was coming from the UK.  It took two weeks to get here. Not happy.
Might try again later, but it didn't quite capture my attention.
I know all the major stories and a few books in depth. The New Testament part is a more pleasant read, but it still resonates that dark condemnation from the Old Testament (believe in me or perish!).  This "If you're not with us, you're against us" mentality is clearly old age thinking. Why these stories became popular and withstood the test of time (varying translations permitted) is not so much a mystery as i previously thought. Our ancestors (black, white, puerto rican, chimpanzee, you name it) were inherently superstitious (and still are). How wonderful it must have been to have the answers to the universe in one book. We (humans specifically) have an innate desire to ask Why (nothing wrong with that). The problem lies when we assert a "truth" and then stubbornly refuse to consider new evidence. Imagine, if you will, 2 forensic specialists arguing over how someone was murdered. One is backing up his claim, the other is simply repeating himself. Tell me, who's in the wrong profession? 2 stars cause i used to be a Christian.
This book was pretty much useless.  Yeah, this book definitely sucks. Examples are sparse and not very helpful. The problems are also ridiculously tedious.  Only reason I gave it a 2 was because it also had  even answers in the back.
I read this book as background research for a novel I'm writing that involves pirates and sailing ships.  From that perspective it was useful.  It was intensely more detailed than I cared for or needed as a reader and other than the bromance aspect of the main characters friendship the plot didn't seem to go anywhere.  I'm glad I finished but I won't be reading any of the many sequel books zero, Mr. O'brian penned.
This book was easy as pie, too easy. It gave me the impression differential equations is a real easy subject with not much depth, like arithmetic or algebra. But no, on the contrary, if you have taken a full course on Nonlinear or PDE then you know this is not the truth. I don't think this book really gave me the confidence to approach the differential equations used in physics, especially the Schrodinger equation until I took a full blown PDE course. I'm not a fan of these elementary course classes to dumb down mathematical curriculum so people can appear to going faster than they really are.
Like most mathematics textbooks, I don't find this one to be very helpful. I am great at math, and I love it, but the textbooks really need to be structured differently. I have a hard time staying focused on it.  It does have fairly good examples though. Avoid it if you can.
Found it difficult to understand all the nautical terms.
My main problem was that this book never explains why you should learn differential equations or why they were developed. Without the lack of context this book is very hard to digest.  When learning from this book it feels like you are being dragged though a meadow of thorns. I would recommend finding a different book on this subject.
Anyone interested in this boo or series should read the one and two star reviews. These good people have stated the truth of this book far better than I could. I like many wanted to like this book, but mister O'Brian did an excellent job of preventing that.
Hardcover is nice. A lot of hype on the story, though. I'm not a huge fan of stoning or almost sacrificing your child. Also, this should be listed under science fiction. The "Jesus" character seemed attractive. Interesting read over all. Two stars because of inaccuracy- didn't like it that much.
I read this book with the idea that this was a classic...what I found was a snooze. While it appears that the author knows his way around a ship I do not nor do I wish to understand it either. I was not impressed with the writing nor the plot. In fact I felt that the plot was very weak from beginning to end. I will not be reading the subsequent books in this series.
I read this because it was recommended to me by friends I respect.  It's a vey well researched and written book, but it's slow throughout.  The battle scenes, which are few, and short and not exciting.  The ending is predictable, and just not gratifying.  It's a boring read.  If you're in the mood for a great seafaring yarn - if you really want to swash your buckle - read CS Forester's Hornblower series.
It is nice to have all of the answers to every question in the back, but for how much I had to spend on it, I would have hoped the explanations to be a lot clearer.
This book is written with the idea that most people who would need it are comfortable with math. I am not and for me it misses out on explaining things. I end up going online to get a better feel for what I just read. That being said, if you love math Elementary Differential Equations is for you.
I hated this textbook. The example problems within the chapters were nothing like the problems at the end of the chapter. It wasn't helpful in the least bit.
I did not like the book. Too much nautical lingo. I did not finish reading it. Someone with interest in maritime language may like it.
Disappointed when this book arrived to see it had a deckle edge. I have wanted to build a collection of hardback copies of the Aubrey/Maturin novels  and ordered the first 6 volumes to find they all have the tatty page edge that to me looks very cheap and nasty. WIll look on UK websites in the hope I can find better quality product.
the language and momentum so far is hard to get me interested imonlt 20% done. kind of boring so far
Long slow read.  Battles were interesting but writing convoluted.  Would not buy anymore of his books.  This one was free as a tempter.  That failed.
Book arrived quickly and was in new condition. BUT... if you need a book that you can actually read and learn from, this is not that book. The concepts are not organized or presented in a coherent and logical manner. Trust me there are better differential books out there.
This book can be a good resource and the practice problems are pretty good. It's also nice that all the solutions are in the back. Very intimidating book, for a difficult class. Good news is I had a great professor. The book does teach Laplace transforms pretty well, with great problems to go with it. EXTREMLY wordy.
I was very frustrated with this book because the ebook edition is only kindle supported on an ACTUAL KINDLE! It does not work on a computer kindle app, which is where I would like to read my text book. I will not be purchasing anything like this again unless I can actually see it on my computer, on a bigger screen that is easier to read. The print is too small to read exponents and diacritics. TERRIBLE EBOOK EDITION! DO NOT BUY. The book itself is fine, and was required for my class.
This is a seafaring yarn where things happen slower than sailing through the doldrums.  There's a lot of interpersonal relationship between three main characters.  Its melodramatic and almost chick lit.  The action, what little there is, is brief and predictable (this isn't the movie by any means).  If you must read this, then do yourself a favor and read C.S. Forester's 'Mr. Midshipman Hornblower' before moving on through either series.
Compared to textbooks for other math or math heavy courses I have taken this text gives far fewer worked examples. It also leaves students to work through quite a number of proofs or to derive formulas on their own. The written text does a poor job of helping the student to understand and develop strategies for solving problems. I also find that the text will leave too much out of explanations, assuming the reader will intuit the missing information. If it helps with credibility, I'm generally an A or A- student in math, and I would not recommend this textbook.
While I'm sure there is a story in this book some where I have trouble finding it amidst the eighteenth nautical speak.  You need a English naval sailing dictionary at constant hand to read this book.  Not an enjoyable read.
If someone knows, please explain an easy way to use footnotes and concordance and then go right back to where you were reading.
The textbook has good information but when looking at the examples on how to work out each individual problem, the text skips many steps and it is not clear how they arrived at the answer. Clear steps are very important for students learning differential equations. A plus for this book is that it has the answers for all the homework problems at the back which is helpful in giving one some idea of where they need to go.
Many of the exercises skip important steps in the process leaving the reader to interpret and over-analyze the exercises. It also doesn't help when there are often just one exercise for certain methods of solving ODEs. It makes learning the subject much more difficult. When it comes to doing the problems, sometimes they lump the hardest and most tedious ones right at the start, instead of allowing you to ease into them. The explanations are written in lengthy paragraphs which also seem to over complicate things. Overall, I would only buy it if it is required to do the problems, but otherwise a horrible book for learning differential equations.
I have no issues with the seller or the condition of this book. My issue with this book is the content. I thought it was very difficult to read and lacked worked-out examples. I found YouTube videos that explained things much more clearly...and those are free.
Didn't realize this was used with writing in it
I tried to listen to this book as an audiobook and it just failed to hold my interest. I made it about halfway through, but there wasn't enough conflict or tension in the plot, and I didn't particularly like any of the characters. I suppose if you're into the history or the nautical terminology, then it does a good job in those respects. It just wasn't for me.
This book sucks, but on the bright side the back of the book has the answer to every problem, instead of just the odd ones. Plus, I managed to make a profit by buying the book on Amazon, then selling it to my school for $60 at the end of the semester.
It's required for my class.  The examples and text aren't very helpful, but the problems are required.  Minimal explanation and maximum exploitation. At least it's cheaper than the university edition.
Gift, I think it was fine....
in order to understand this book you must have a strong knowledge of algebra and calculus, otherwise you will spend more time than recommended.  Also a solution manual will be better.
I have 4 other Differential Equation textbooks, and they all make this one look straight awful.  The best way to sum up this textbook is this example, you know when you are trying to explain something to someone, but you do not know what exactly you are talking about either so you use big words to try and sound smart and hope the other person will just give up on trying to understand? Well that is what this textbook does for about 600 pages...
This book is pretty awful: chapters are tedious, important material is not highlighted, and important material is not discussed. An example is the chapter on "reduction of order". They actually do not show the reduction of order, they assume you can do a problem for yourself and "see it happen".  Examples are mostly irrelevant to the problems in the book. However, the problems are the only part of this book that are decent, and that is why I gave this book 2 stars instead of one.  This book seems like it meant for a more rigorous differential equations class, not an introductory one.  Avoid
This textbook is not the worst I've ever used but it's far from good. I won't lie that I have something of a short attention span when bored, but this text is full of blocks upon blocks of text instead of examples. There are one or two examples in every section and often the problems at the end are about cases other than the ones covered in the section. Also many of these problems are highly theoretical (and many are proofs) and as a Cornell engineering student, I still had no idea why some of the theories were true or relevant. Sometimes these blocks of text were convoluted and so crammed with ideas that they were impossible to comprehend. As a sde note, I wouldn't buy the ssm for this because all the odd questions are on Cramster anyways. The only one blatant strength of this book is the fact that both odd and even answers are given in the back, and as far as I know (from those problems I did) there were no/very few typos. Not an enjoyable text at all (or not as enjoyable as a math text can possibly be...), however all the info and knowledge is there, if you have the attention span strong enough to break it.
As a fan of the movie (Am I supposed to admit something like that?), I was curious about the novel. So I picked this up.  A handful of parts were well done, but overall I found much of the writing to be lacking in so many ways. It seemed unfocused, with the characters and plot sort of hodgepodge - do I really care about the intrigue of the captain's promotion or the division of the war spoils? The additional pages of ship-sailing explanation made the whole mess come to a grinding halt. Extremely disappointing.
I bought this book as part of a Guy's Book Club.  Other Guy's in the book club had read this book and really liked it.  Obviously, this whole series has a huge following and, of course, there's the Russell Crowe movie.  For me, though, I couldn't get past all the dialect and authenticity.  I couldn't get into the flow of the narrative and I only just barely followed the plot line. So after about 100 pages, I put it down.  People who like this type of book will love it but if you're thinking of reading it because all your friends loved it and the movie was cool, you might be in for more than you bargained for.
As far as text books go this book is just awful. limited examples and very poor explanations. not that it really matters though because i doubt anybody would pay a $100 for this just to read it. It is a required textbook for a college class so ya don't really get a choice
this bible DID NOT HAVE LARGE PRINT
Heretical bureaucrats with a taste for Shakespearian language gin up a linguistic triumph but a scholarly disaster. And there are ten books missing!
This is why:  1. Long-winded minute descriptions of riggings and masts and everything nautical that really slowed down the narrative and the story.  I found myself leafing through tens of pages. It was great to watch the ship in the movie, not so interesting getting a forced education in every little part that made a ship. This book could have been half as long and twice as gripping.  2. The action sequences were rushed, with very little buildup and a whiplash conclusion.  Usually, after tens of pages in which nothing happens, suddenly there's a battle (without anyone preparing us for the excitement) and then it was over. I did recognize the tactics portrayed in the movie, except that in the movie the build-up was perfect, we understood the brilliance of Jack as a captain and really felt like we were a part of the ordeal. In the book the battles fell flat.  3. The author doesn't show us the personal relationships, but rather tells us about them by way of journal segments (personal diaries).  All in all, the writing is VERY old-fashioned, heavy, misses the punch-line, etc. You get the story - and, having watched the movie, you know it could be great - but alas the book isn't. Not for a 21st century reader.
Doesn't have (or it is very hard to use/find) scripture/word search.
Explanations are difficult to understand, and the example problems for each section are insufficient for demonstrating the topic.  There are no solutions to the exercises in the back of the book, only answers. If you want to learn diff eq., I would recommend using Pauls Online Notes and your instructor's lectures.  This book fails to teach students how to solve problems.
I used this book in my Intro to Diff Eq class.  Appreciation of this book requires a good understand of physics, which I, admittedly, do not have.  The explanations are not always straightforward because they are bogged down in complicated proofs.  Nothing is stated succinctly or summarized.  My biggest issue with this text is that it lacks sufficient visualizations of ideas (charts, graphs, etc).  I had to sketch the ideas as best as I understood them as I went through the material, a laborious process.
This book was required for the DE classes at UTexas for a first/second year student, encountering DE's for the first time.  The book is very comprehensive in teaching all aspects of DE's.  However, the book is very dry and difficult to get through.  The worst thing is that is impossible to get through this book without some supplemental material.  For examples, the book uses proofs instead of examples that can be applied to the homework several times.  In addition the examples on countless occassions are like it can be shown through some simple calculations(which they won't show you)(it skips steps) that you can get to some other formula and you're like how did they do that?  In addition the notation/symbols they use are not defined all the time, and this leads to extra confusion when trying to learn something new.  Overall the examples are vague.
I wanted to like this, but have to pass.  Nowhere on the page does it tell you what book of the bible you are in, or what chapter, etc.  I can't think of any time I'd be reading the bible and NOT want to know where I am.  Also, I hate the "red letter" version, didn't intend to get one.
I have the unabridged audio edition of Master and Commander.  Three hours into the audio version, NOTHING has happened.  No conflict.  No plot.  There is a lot of nattering on about ship budgets, hiring crew members, and the finer points of music and dining in 17th century Mallorca.  But in all that time, the ship hasn't even left the dock.  I gave up expecting anything to happen.  I might have kept reading if the characters were remotely interesting--after all, I enjoyed Lord of the Rings, I love Stephen King and Tad Williams--but these characters are as dull and dry as their powdered wigs.
Like previous users have mentioned, this book is very hard to follow.  They skip many steps in their examples and I was always left thinking "Where did that come from?"  It tends to be too formal and not explain enough.
With all the hype I expected better.  I have to agree with other reviewers that the sea jargon weighs down the writing, and the plot and characterization could have been better.  I admired the author's knowledge of 18th century seafaring, but on the whole I was left dissapointed.
There are good solid reasons why many readers rave about "Master and Commander."  The battle scenes are exciting, a couple of the characters are intriguing, the historical background is interesting, and the voyage around the Mediterranean is sort of fun.  That said, the novel isn't for everyone.  I found myself too bogged down by the quirky period dialogue and arcane nautical terms to derive much enjoyment out of this book.  To boot, the plot seems pretty thin (although things thicken up a bit towards the end).  I think it would be best to judge "Master and Commander" after reading several books in the series.  But after reading the first, I don't feel compelled to plow through any more.
It dose not have index with chapter and verves shown where you can go straight to it.
I disliked this so much, I had to review it.  The use of period vocabulary and nautical terms had me running for a dictionary or the web more times than I considered reasonable. Had to give up before the "sophie" even set sail.
I've never read a book where the author tried so hard to keep all the dialog and terms true to period. I rarely understood what was going on; it was English, but from times past (the King James Bible is easier reading). That, plus all the nautical jargon that is never explained, kept me from any enjoyment the book may have had to offer. I gave up after a third of the book.
Type very, very small.
The plot of this novel is taken from the autobiography of Admiral Lord Cochrane, first published in 1860.  The events included describe Cochrane's activities when he commanded the Speedy from 1800-1801 (see "the Autobiography of a Seaman," by Admiral Lord Cochrane, republished in 2000 by Lyons Press).  O'Brien has replaced Cochrane with the fictional James Aubrey, giving him a similar personality.  While O'Brien has given more color to the story, there is absolutely nothing significant that is original to the plot.  I have to agree with a recent reviewer that the novel describes a lot of action without having a central plot.  The second book in the series, "Post Captain," seems to be a more original story, but many of O'Brien's novels seem to have taken significant amounts of material from earlier writers (without acknowledging that fact).
lettering is too small.
SIZE OF TYPE TOO SMALL.
Very difficult to use. I wish I could return it.
Writing is way too small for normal people
Not great. It's "gift bible" quality, which is appropriate for the price. However, my issue is with the binding. It's so tight that the inner rows of text are hard to read without holding it open with effort. I don't understand why an inch or so more spacing could've been afforded. My goodness.
Very small, print is tiny. Pages are very thin and tear when turned too roughly.
print really small. lots of wear and tear
The font is not as large as I expected - it looks like a size 10.  I am disappointed in this; I purchase this large-print bible because the age on the eyes is catching up :)
This Bible is a little hard for me to get around in. Especially at Bible Study. That is why I gave it a low rating.
The Common English Bible was disappointing in the typeface used. It's very small and can be read only in very good light. The size of the typeface was not addressed in the write up on Amazon.
Very hard to turn page without hitting notation numbers, then no way to get back to where you were.
The cover was bent up :(
The print was too small.
Hard to locate scriptures, until Titus
Leather cover was messed up and it was small print edition
The reference links make this bible nearly unusable. Every time I tap to turn the page I get whisked away to some other page full of reference links. Then I have to backtrack to where I once was, and then go forward again while trying to dodge those horrible links. Would not recommend. Wish I didn't buy.
writing too small
The heart of the story is good -- it gives a touching glimpse into the life of someone living with cerebral palsy, and reading it certainly raised my awareness of not judging someone's mental capabilities by their physical limitations. Christy Brown was indeed an inspirational person who overcame a lot. However, Brown's writing style is simple and on the surface, lacking real depth and detail. He tries to be deep and intellectual at times, but it just comes off as overly dramatic and cheesy. It felt like I was  reading a 13 year-old's diary...interesting enough stories within it, but not well-written at all. The only redeeming factor is that the book is short and a quick read. However, I would not recommend this to anyone.
The pages are so thin that you can see right through them.  It makes it very hard to read and concentrate.
this bible was unistalled.
Not easily navigatable.
Boring and way too long!  Too many rambling on and on sentences and descriptions!
I was looking forward to this read but I was soon disappointed.  This story is way too rambling for my tastes.  I like the writing in its descriptive form but enough is enough.  Reading other reviews I see I am in the minority although not alone.  The beginning and Joe's early struggles are a worthwhile read.  His demeanor slowly turns and he never really gets back on track as his life progresses and this reader was never quite sure where he stood at the end.  I admit to scanning the last 15% of the book as I didn't want to quit without finishing.....although I guess I sort really didn't finish.  Good for those who enjoyed it but I was not one of them.
Ok Bible. But has some changes from that seem to be unfounded. Good for cross referencing but can't be taken too seriously due to the fact that it's done by one man which had his own agenda.
You can not go to a book or verse very quick.
I was disappointed in the quality  of leather. Binding. I gave it as a gift and was embarrassed
These editions have a long way to go to be user friendly. Too much "wading" through to get to what you want to reference. Good to have it available at an affordable price.
Wasn't as I thought
Plodding, turgid prose. I could not get into this book.
Slugging my way through this book. Feels like the character development could be stronger.
An interesting story skillfully told, but it became impossible for me to wade through Caldwell's crackpot ultra-right-wing conspiracy theorizing. Ex-Goldwaterites and Tea Party folks probably think this is a terrific novel, but I gave up about 60% of the way through it. At least I didn't waste much money on it.
Book has 650 pages and could have been a good story in half that many pages. Too much YADA YADA YADA BLAH BLAH BLAH in describing people, clothing, homes, scenery, etc.
An author with a very conservative point of view about the impact of socialism and the free enterprise system.  Writing is a little stilted and preachy.
Nowhere near MacLeans best
I was under the impression that this was a large print bible. It was not. It was delivered to the right apt. building but wrong apt. The best thing about the book was it's price.
In not very good condition
Cannot go directly to any one page. You have "scoll" back and forth. So what's the point of having an index if you cannot click on a certain page. Doesn't have the proper functions for me, so I do not use it.
There is no table of contents or index and it is difficult to find books or scriptures.
I like taking notes and writing personal comments but cannot transfer the writing on paper but left locked inside the Samsung where I cannot send from "save" to print. For example: when I leave from "the book of Judges chapter 1" I'm on my own because there is no written book or chapter until I get to chapter 2. In between there is no name of book chapter or verse and very frustrating to keep searching for where you're located unless you go back to the beginning of the book. You'll have to get several Bibles to find your niche that satisfies. However I do appreciate it when you can highlight a single word or line and go to "note" and very effective. Also when you go to "share progress" your notes cannot be sent to "memo" or "email".
The font on this soft cover Bible is so small I can barely read it!  The font is smaller than size 8 on word, probably 7 if I had one that small.  I'm sorry I spent the money.  Maybe the Kindle version is better but I was concerned about navigation.
I have the basic Kindle. I can't give the Bible a low rating. Only problem I have is It can't move from chapter to chapter.
it says easy navigation, but there is not a good table of contents and you cannot choose a particular chapter even, if it cost more I would ask to cancel it!!!
It doesn't allow for easy searching. You have to go to a list of the books of the Bible and then flip through to get where you want. Guess which book ISN'T listed? Psalms. So you have to pick the book before (Job) or after (Proverbs) and go backward. However, since Psalms has over 130+ books with multiple versus, it is challenging to get where you want to go.  Since I had planned to use this in church, this inability to locate things quickly makes this a poor choice for me. The good thing is that the KJV does bracket the added in words which is important versus other versions I've seen where everything is all in the same typeface. Oh well, I'll keep looking for one that does everything.
content as expected, but difficult to navigate at first.  A bit frustrating and didn't give it a lot of time.
Below what I was looking fot
Having this version of the Bible on my Kindle has been an excellent way to read and study the bible.
I didn't appreciate the small print sizes until I opened them and saw it.  I will keep it in my car for a quick reference but not use it for much more.
Moderately decent fiction, if you like it bloody!
This review is for the Kindle version of the Holy Bible, New King James Version (by Thomas Nelson Publishers).  I have good news and bad news.  The good news is that this is a Bible, written in clear English.  The bad news is that its digital navigation was apparently designed by Satan.  Did it not occur to anyone that a Table of Contents that (on the Kindle's very lowest font-size) is 75 pages long is just dumb?  This is the *Bible* that is being presented, people!  Make an effort!  If I were to sit down and ponder how to most efficiently frustrate readers, I do not think I could have come up with a better -- that is, worse -- navigation-design -- or lack of design -- than the one that was adopted here.  According to legend, there has been a new update to the navigation -- "Enhanced eBook Navigation."  If you encounter this, great.  But I have not.  The "navigation" in the edition that I obtained made this digital Bible pretty useless except for reading cover-to-cover.
I cannot locate the book of  Psalms in this version of the Bible. Why has it  been omitted? If this is an error in downloading, can you fix it?
Very disappointing. Having read the first and got accustomed to the real characters of HMS Hecate, the second book appeared contrived with nameless participants (The Captain) playing parts that just did not fit. The whole story was full of technical holes that did not appear in the first book. All academic as the the book was written a long time ago. But not nearly as good as his first work.
One thing I'm greatly unsatisfied with this edition is its layout! When I open up the book, it's so hard to read  every letter near the folding part because there is no space at all!. Whenever I try to calm down and read again and again though, it rather takes away  joy of reading the Bible...
I just couldn't get into it!  I couldn't relate to anything in it and couldn't read further than the first few chapters.  Sorry to the author but I tried!
It was, at least as far as I got, a mystery set in a military academy.  It plodded too much and I stopped reading it.
The print is so small you need a magnifying glass to read it! Gave it to my young son! Thanks!
I have the (Tecarta Bible) on my Kindle Fire. When I did an Galaxy Tab 2 App Search for .... (Techarta Bible)  this is what came up and I bought it hoping that it would be the Same as my Tecarta Bibles on my Kindle. However this Item is what I Purchased not knowing that it is Different and Inferior to the Tecarta Bibles that were on my Kindle. After the Tecarta Bible that I put on my Kindle this App just does NOT live up to the Tecarta Bible on my Kindle Fire. Also after I purchased this Item I never did see anything about it being Associated with the Tecarta Bibles that are on my Kindle.
Very weak - Even though it was written as a "short" story it could have had more depth to it. Every thing happens at once and bam the story is done.
And it's a thumper Bible! Why couldn't it have a plain cover, why does it need to pump the Bible and pump Thomas Nelson? The Bible speaks for itself!
I couldn't get this to show up on my Kindle keyboard. I downloaded it through Whispernet and twice using my USB. It shows the file in my Kindle documents, but it doesn't show up on my actual Kindle screen. I don't know if anyone else has had this problem, or if it's just me.
Unfortunately, the print in this Bible is teeny-tiny and difficult to read.  I guess I shouldn't have expected more for $2.99.
I bought this thinking I could use it on my kindle to look up passages and scriptures anywhere. Wrong. You have to have internet access to look up anything. If your plan is to read the bible cover to cover then it would be fine, but if you need to actually skip to sections, it's awful unless you have internet access 24/7.
Good to giveaway, bad for pew bibles. The print is very small and it makes it hard to read. Nice otherwise.
I don't like the format...does not have an index to click on a particular book of the Bible; you have to scroll through every page to get to what you want to read.  Wish I had my money back for this one because I will never use it to do my daily Bible reading, research, or to look up a verse.
The print is entirely too small even for the best eyesight.  Will keep this order, but will not order anymore
I was hoping to use this bible for our church's bible study, but with the text being so small, many of the people could not read it. My advice. Buy a bible with a text that is at least 10 or maybe 12 font
Amazon's program doesnt work properly and it made the book hard to use I would recommend a real book NOT the Kindle version
I thought it would be nice to use this bible because of the Search feature advertised. Then, when I downloaded the app, I realized I cannot use the Search feature on Kindle Fire. If I'm wrong, please let me know because I would like to use it if possible, but I couldn't figure out a way to just start typing the book of the bible. I think because of the differences of the Kindle versions, applications that are supposed to be made for Kindle should specify on which versions of Kindle the app will work.
The last chapter of Matthew's Gospel,and the Summary/ first 2 chapters of Mark were Missing, while Chapters 2 to 5 had Mutilation/ knife marks. It's the 1st time I am buying a Defective item through Amazon.com
The cover is attractive and good. The only problem is that the words are TOO small! I mean it!!! If you want to give it as a gift, the person needs to have real good eyes.
The reason I was disappointed the print is way too small. I was really looking for a daily guide.  I since have gotten (The Daily Bread) which I was looking for.  Maybe I can find someone with really good eyes to give the Bible to.  Marjorie Mellinger
I paid for a new Bible but received a used one.  I was shocked when my daughter opened her gift and it was damaged on the edges of the cover.  There was a stamp somewhere that said "used".  Why would I purchase a used Bible as a gift?  I gave it to her before I knew it was damaged.  It was too late to take it back.  I also regretted having negative feelings about the Bible.  It was supposed to be NEW!  Shame on you for misleading and deceptive practices.
It is difficult going from one book to another, & there seems to be no instruction as  to how to expedite the search.
I like the translation but would not recommend it to use at a church bible study. It is too difficult to navigate quickly.
I downloaded the wrong version of this book. I'd like a way to select/search for one particular book and verse and go right to it. I don't like having to scroll through so many pages to get to the book/verse that I want.
This book seems really old fashioned in its language, and a lot of the stories seem pretty unbelievable.  I don't think it stands a chance of being reprinted.
Disappointed when this book arrived to see it had a deckle edge. I have wanted to build a collection of hardback copies of the Aubrey/Maturin novels  and ordered the first 6 volumes to find they all have the tatty page edge that to me looks very cheap and nasty. WIll look on UK websites in the hope I can find better quality product.
I didn't understand how stained the product was. I knew it was not brand new but it is in very rough condition!
*Memoirs*  would be more accurate.  Johnny Cash uses most of these pages to praise friends and family.  However, it's much too superficial; for example, to say I saw Linda Ronstadt and the whole crowd loved her . . .  I'm not sure he even met the singer.    He does get into his life long battle with pills: amphetamines and pain killers.  But was there a rock bottom?  a brush with death?  No depth!  I took these pills and those pills . . . .    Where is the "My fault?"  No explanation for the divorce of his first wife or about his firing of one of the Tennessee Two.    This book is for groupies only.  The biography of Johnny Cash and his musical legacy has yet to be written.
Yes it is the BIBLE. but I find, having to jump all over the place, to read, a particular part flustrating...I wish I'd not bought this for my kindle.
The Kindle edition of this version of the Bible is little hard to navigate.  Trying to jump back & forth between the Old & New Testament is jerky.  I prefer the actual physical version of any translation of the Bible.  I have about 8 different versions in hard print.  This version is great to have at my fingertips just reading in my down time.
The book was mainly about other people he knew (like Roy Orbison). It hardly told his own story. At the same time he would share history and stories of each house he owned and little stories that you'd hear a grandfather talk about on holidays of sorts, so that was kinda nice. I learned much more about him from reading all his old letters and such in "I Walked The Line" by Vivian Cash (his first wife).
I bought this Bible on Kindle. Whenever I go to the Table of Contents, it puts me at the bottom of the Bible in Revelation, and it takes quite a while to scroll through the table of contents to get to where I want. When trying to select a chapter, it seemed like some books would rather take you to the footnotes than to the text. The text was very nice. It prints the verses in list form (instead of paragraph form), and the verse number is written in bold to indicate the beginning of a new paragraph. But in the end, the navigation is not user friendly.
The writing was too small. I don't know where to send it so I put it in my book collection. I would not give this to anyone.
The gutter is so tight on this book that I had to pull the pages away from the spine to read the first few letters of every sentence. It ultimately went in the garbage when I literally ripped it in half just trying to read God's Word. Frustrating and disappointing.
I loved the movie, "Walk The Line". Since the movie was based on this book, I figured it would be a great read. Some of it has been interesting, but I'm not a religous person and I find all of the spiritual talk tedious. I'm only 3/4 of the way through the book and it will be a struggle to finish it. I skipped a whole chapter last night because it was all about scripture. Not my thing!
I could not access the parts I wanted without taking about 3 minutes so I got rid of it. I need one I can access quickly in church.
the print is soooooo small and it's divided in 3 columns which makes very boring to read. The context is great and the Bible message is the greatest in the entire world
This Bible does not have chapter headings. Bible headings are very helpful for new believers. They are also great to have when teaching children.
Not the real word of God!  I would not give this book to someone, not the word of God!  Pastor Joe
Poorly bound ... cannot open pages fully.  The font is very small and difficult to read.  It is certainly not what I would call a Deluxe Gift and Award Bible.
I was disappointed that the print was much smaller than I expected. However, at the price I bought these I should not even complain. They were purchased for members of my Sunday School class and I was really hesitant to give them away.
Ok, I love the Bible as much as anybody.  Thing is, this Kindle version is so cumbersome that it's best not to consider it.  I don't know what to tell you, other than it just doesn't work.  About the only thing this version is good for, is if you want to simply read the bible from cover to cover.  Don't even THINK about trying to use it as a study bible, or as your bible during sermon.  No way you can keep up.  A better... MUCH better option is YouVersion for Android, iOS and PC.  That is a do-able solution.  And, in case  you're wondering, I don't work for YouVersion, and I didn't get paid for this review.  This is just my honest opinion.
At his best, MacLean is near the top of the pulp action genre with interesting locations and characters and a bit of romance.  "Fear", a story of revenge, misses the mark.  I never could quite connect with the protaganist and surprisingly, the ending was neither compelling or, to me, satisfying.  Other MacLean books such as "Dusty Death" and "Caravan" better display his true abilities.
Not what I expected.  Was looking more for what the Skeptics Annotated is and thought that was a bit of what I was getting with this.  Will use it for reference material only and then just delete.  Again, not what I expected from the descriptive write up.
I was expecting something on the order of Guns of Navarone but this started out so negative I couldn't really get into it. That's a shame because I usually really like Alistair Maclean's books
This Bible is too hard to navigate on the Kindle.  If you are trying to follow along with your pastor he will have moved on to another scripture before you find the first one.  I did not like this Bible so I returned it.
Well I was told it was great  well I don't like it at all. I have looked at it once and on the shelf it stays. A KJV Bible and Concordance is what you need not this.
Very predictable, not a typical Mclean thriller
I did not get this you did not add it to my kindle, so please add it to my kindle
The print was not that large and it didn't have a concordance or index a good idea but I didn't like it
The lettering was to small for easier reading. I didn't notice if they had a large print one in stock.
The index feature on this doesn't work on KIndle Fire. The technology was designed for an earlier Kindle. Is there an update?
The print is so small I cannot read it--I would like to have this for my kindle, where I can use a font large enough to enable me to read it.
I am having difficulty getting to the different books of the Bible.  I am guessing I will do better the more I use it.
As a much younger man, I loved the novels of Alistair MacLean.  Even though they were often formulaic, I found the fast pace and the intricacy of the thought process quite seductive.  I did not recall ever reading WHEN EIGHT BELLS TOLL, so, as a way of revisiting an old friend, I bought it.   And here I am a month later with the book out of my carousel and off my device.  I read about half of it before giving up.  It is hopelessly coy, giving some information about the dangers of the moment but not allowing the reader enough information about what in blazes any of these people are up to.  It is as though Agatha Christie wrote a Poirot novel in which Hastings reports on Poirot investigating something but deciding not to tell us what it was.  A disappointing entry into what I remember as an excellent canon.
I bought this version primarily because of the beauty of the language.  However, if you plan to use this as a study or reference for scripture, this is not the one for you.  The way that the contents is organized, makes finding a specific scripture very labor intensive.  A simple listing of the table of contents that would allow you to navigate directly to a specific book would be a great improvement.
It was bad enough that the accompaning CD was filmed in the stone age, with a tiny amount of information, none that differed from the book, nor with any new information as the guy skips/leaps over the steps. But what was a huge time waster, angered me and left me out to hang was the so-called online resource with "tutors" available during certain times of the day. Well, that site is a mess. Totally unworkable and a lie. I spent hours tying to login in and signup and search (finding only dead end sites). By the time I gave up I was profoundly frustrated and I felt cheated. If that's why the book cost an arm and a leg then we have been deceived.  And thinking about it now, the book's examples are pretty helpful for the easy problems in the chapters but a problem with more complicated situations and the book leaves you again out of help.  What a disgrace.
Not the greatest of Agatha Christie' s books. The ending is a little more surprising than expected but then you always expect surprises from her.
i did not enjoy this one. too many irrelevant psychological ruminations. the  unravelling of the mystery came from a speculation in the last few pages. the  reader didn't stand a fair chance to solve it.
Print too small, it said large print, but its too  small to read almost! When I ordered the product it said large easy to read, not so.
Another very ordinary 'Poirot'.  The Belgian sleuth is  travelling in the middle east with a group which includes a horrible American matriarch.  This horrible bit of goods gets the chop and because she's such a nasty piece of work she deserved it.  Its very hard to get involved in the story when there is absolutely no sympathy for the victim.  Anyway, Poirot sets out to solve the murder and he does but with one of the real cheat endings of Christie's career .  The reader should at least have an outside chance of solving the murder but this one gives you no hope.  Not great. (1938)
This is one of the hardest e-books I have tried to use!  It is not user friendly - Your cannot move easily to the books and chapters you want.  Would not recommend this.  I like the NKJ  version but not  on my Kindle.
The book I received was creased in the spine top corner and had a little tear on the bottom of the spine. This book was for a Christmas present so I didn't have time to send back and ask for a replacement.
I truly like this version of the Bible and would use it often; however, the App frequently freezes or does not open at all on my Kindle Fire HD. Actually, in an effort to use the KJV Holy Bible, I purchased this app twice.  Unfortunately, I am still not able to use either of the downloads successfully.
At first, I thought this Bible would be great.  Until I tried the search feature.  It was always really cumbersome and it only worked about 1/4 of the time.  I had to keep trying and trying to get it to find the verse.  Then Amazon auto-upgraded the OS for my Kindle and the search feature stopped working altogether.  It kept saying it wasn't indexed and I never could get it to reindex after the OS upgrade (I guess this Bible isn't compatible with the new OS).  I finally gave up and purchase a much less expensive Bible for my Kindle.  The search feature works great and I like it much better.  I gave this one 2 stars because it's KJV and I didn't find anything wrong with the text itself.  It was only the search feature that didn't work well.
was not able to bring up any book or verse in this bible. would like to return for refund, was  worthless since i could not navigate in the Bible.
This bible is too confusing..  Did not found it helpful in bible class. I do not like it and would not recommend to others.
I had to go back to the front page to change which book I was reading , it should be made easy .
I was told by the publisher that it had normal-size print and two columns (I asked specifically about this) -- and then after receiving 50 Bibles (extremely poorly packed) it has tiny print and 3 columns. Very disappointing. Not the Bible, of course, but the wrong information given and the unbelievably poorly packaging. Both shipments had to be put in bags because the boxes were coming all apart.
The print is extremely tiny.  Unless you have great eye sight, don't buy it!  You practically need a magnifying glass.
The print was far too small for almost anyone to read. It was difficult to even hold due to the tightness of the binding.
I have been reading off a list of mystery books recommended by Publishers Weekly. Not a good list, in my opinion. Only a few have been kinda okay. This current novel is typical, but is even more boring than the others. It's a arduous narrative about a super criminal, Dimitrios, between WWl and WWll. However his character is never really developed. I am not going any further fearing spoilers should anyone be inclined to read the novel.  Should any of you want to review the list I have mentioned go here: http://www.publishersweekly.com/pw/by-topic/industry-news/tip-sheet/article/59582-the-10-best-mystery-books.html
Lacks the pace. Alright if you have the time
I am new and don't know how to borrow books from my local library since they recently changed their system and I would like to know how to turn to a particular passage or book in the Bible I have purchased from you
With all due respect to the author, God, the KJV translation is quite archaic and difficult to read and understand. Much more research has been done since the time when the KJV came into being and theologians are much better equipped to translate the original documents. I tried the New American version and found it to be infinitely easier to digest.
Having trouble moving from book to book and from old to new testament. It shows a table of contents, but starts at the old testament and I haven't figured it out as of yet.
Feels a bit difficult to navigate.  Can not get it to go where I want it to without going page by page.
I was very anxious to receive this Bible as I am looking for a Pew Bible, or other Bible that hasn't been contaminated with the "opinions" of man on each page in center columns or "footnotes" with confusing statements to new believers. I believe the Holy Spirit is just as capable today as when He was sent as our "Comforter"! I want to be able to have a good conscience before God as each one is distributed. This was the perfect edition, I don't have an issue with the Red Letters for what Christ spoke, the cover was sturdy, BUT the pages are very thin and I can't see anyone using this as Pew Bible without being torn up in a short time. Here is what I learned so if you are looking for the same. NOTE the thickness of the Bible! That should be a good indicator if it has thin stock paper. Keep in mind the other dimensions when looking for a Large Print Bible. I wouldn't consider any others as everyone is pretty able to read Large Print but not smaller print! This Bible was only 1.5" thick! That should have been my first clue, but now not only do I know what to look for, and so do you! The thicker the better when comparing with the other same dimensions. Hope this helps! Psalm 90:17
The book jacket references that Ambler is the precursor to the works of people like Len Deighton and Robert Ludlum. Now I understand why I don't care for the work of the latter two writers -- A Coffin for Dimitrios is somewhat diverting, but the premise is a reach and the writing never rises above 'adequate'.
Not as scary as I thought it would be be - more background into the other characters than I expected
This book left me very unsatisfied.  Most reviewers here hail the book as a "classic" and magnificent thriller, and many seem to feel that since Ambler is the "father of the modern spy thriller" they are duty-bound to beatify this work.  I'll take a modern spy author any day.  True, the plot moves steadily forward, the characters are fascinating and well-drawn, and the descriptions of pre-war Central Europe are delicious.  But the book seems to move like a train -- you get on, you look out the window at the passing landscape, and then you get off.  There was little if any excitement; the suspense was tepid; the plot  turned on convenient contrivances aimed only at enabling the author to keep the book moving.  The ending, to me, was naive and left me saying:  "Is that all there is???"  Like I say, in the face of all the rave reviews, I must be missing something.
I have used other KJV Bibles and this one is very old styled. Not what I was expecting and will probably never use it again.
I LIKED THE BOOK BECAUSE GOD CREATED LIGHT FOR THE EARTH AND MADE PEOPLE. I DISLIKE THE BOOK BECAUSE JESUS DIED. THERE SHALL BE NO MORE  DEATH. JESUS DIED FOR OUR SINS. JESUS ROSED FROM THE DEAD.
This Bible  if I had it in hand I could find what I wanted  but I had a difficult time getting to where i wanted to be. I REALLY DON'T WANT THIS HOW DO I  GET IT OFF MY KINDLE?  ATTENTION::::::::::   MOST OF MY RATINGS ARE DONE ON MY LAPTOP FROM MY E-MAIL NOT MY KINDLE FIRE HD WHICH I ACCESS THESE PRODUCT. I REMOVED IT FROM MY DEVICE.
Dracula is a classic, and rightly so.  However, beware of purchasing the Kindle Edition of this book.  What you will get are very poor quality scans of a used physical copy, with pencil markings on many of the pages, even obscuring text.  I don't know who's idea it was to use a marked up copy of the book for the ebook scans, but consider purchasing from a different listing if you want to read it on your kindle.
Historically and interesting read. Story that shows promise but it feels not well worked out and poorly written. Many characters not fully developed including title character. Better off reading Mary Shelley. Overall grade C+
I expected it is specially made for kindle, indexing is not good which made searching things harder.  Anyways this is not what I am searching for....
This Bible I thought would be great for my daughter, THE WORDS ARE SO SMALL THAT YOU CANT EVEN READ THE WORDS!!!
The translation is not accurate and poorly accessibility for use.  I ended up purchasing another product which is very satisfactory.
This was my second reading, my first having been accomplished just about 50 years ago. I think I have fared and aged better than this old classic. I suppose I had more patience then for the endless descriptions of trivia, minutia, the ways and means of travel to various places and machinations of getting there. Certain scene setting was done well, and I've highlighted those passages. I guess if you like adventure, you will go for this. Not my cup of tea anymore.
Scans of pages from the original book are tough to read on a Kindle. I feel like there should be a giant disclaimer on this prior to purchase. I feel bad about this but I wouldn't have spent $5 on scanned pages when a true kindle version is .99 cents.
I was very glad I got the free sample on this version of this book instead of spending money on it; the print is so tiny it is nearly impossible to read on my Kindle, even after clicking zoom in on the pages with my reading glasses on. Anyone with a problem reading tiny type should steer clear of this one and get a different version with bigger, easier to read type!
I found this to be too dated for my taste now. I recall reading this series 40 years ago. I liked it then. Now I'm hooked on Swedish mysteries.
The print is too small.  When I can afford it, I hope to order a Large Print Hard Cover King James Bible by Thomas Nelson  .  I did appreciate the simplicity of ordering and delivery as promised.
The verse search feature doesn't work on Kindle fire HD, all you get is a location number, anywhere between 1 and 37320, but no verse addresses can be typed in???
I bought the NJKV to use for general reading and study, however, to my disappointment I found that the table of contents doesn't work. If you click on "New Testament" you are given an option to view all the books and chapters, however, if you click on them nothing happens. The only way to find your way around this e-Bible is by turning one page at a time. I'm very unimpressed!
A preposterous tale that can only be excused by the fact that it was the author's apprentice work, obviously to Sayers and Christie.  The situation is wholly generic: murder done under cover of `The Murder Game,' and all the suspects have cast-iron alibis.  The murderer's is clever rather than convincing, but even this is undone by the complete absence of clues.  It is not, however, the central murder that damns the novel, but the sheer badness of the extraneous elements.  The facetiousness is embarrassing: Alleyn and Bathgate are at the nadir of their ingenuousness, giggling coyly like a pair of schoolgirls, while the passages with grubby brats are irritating in the extreme.  The final straw is the intrusive and irrelevant "Russian element," which badly dates the tale; indeed, the preposterous bratsvo-torture scenes are reminiscent of Walling and Wallace at their worst.  The previous owner showed his disappointment by scribbling Cyrillics in the margins.
There is no table of Continent and it is more difficult to navigate than any other Bible that I have on my Kindle.
After having read several of Jackie Collins' books, I must attest this was the worst!  I couldn't connect with any of the characters, the plot was mundane, and I was seriously disappointed...
I know this is a classic, but it's just not for me. The writing style is tough, the wording is just to old for me. I did like that it had a happy ending. I just feel after all the amped up Vampire stuff from nowadays this isn't action packed enough.
Silly superficial stuff. I get so many books for free and borrow others from the e-library, I don't have time for this. As a name-brand best-selling author, I was hoping for better from her. I expect it will appeal to a certain sort of genre fan, and there's nothing wrong with that. To each her own.
The bible is the most amazing thing I got saved when I was six I have loved Jesus all my life and I will always love him no matter the circumstances. He will all ways stay in my life, when I'm with nobody He is with me.
Although an interesting thriller type story, the characters were too stereotyped to be believed. I would.' ve liked more depth in the story themes.
It jumped around a lot I found it hard to follow at first, then the characters were really oddly put together thrown into a world that seemed as if they could never work out, I found if far fetched and of how things worked out.
Was easy to read but story just seemed to stop at the end mid air? The whole thing was half hearted-wouldn't recommend this-had read another of her books which was much better.
Didn't like it.
Not impressed...appears somewhat scattered thought process.
I kept thinking it was going to get better. Nope
Barely got through the whole thing. Figured once already into it, I should just finish. The story dragged on for quite some time and what is in the description about Daniel doesn't really happen till almost the end. Dry and it seemed like she was confused about the timing (details didn't add up) the cleo character was great though.
I see none of the tools that were promised to aid in studying,  I thought there was supposed to be a complete and easy to use concordance
This book drove me crazy. I tried reading it a long time ago and quickly remembered why I had stopped. Just as I am getting into the story, the narrative changes. I found it very disjointed and annoying. If that doesn't bother you then I am sure you will like the book. As for me I wish someone would redo it.
I ran out of books while on vacation and found this classic.   I used to be a Dracula fan as a child but thankfully I wasn't forced to read this book back then or else I would have changed my devotion to Superman.   A long boring book for the most part written in old world english makes this a very tedious read. The first chapters and the last are the most interesting but it never gets dark enough nor does it get gory. The pink elephant is in the room but you never get to her it squeal.   I am happy I got through it so I can say that I read this classic but I cannot recommend it to many people. Goth fans maybe but definitely not to horror fans.
I've heard a lot about this author but I found the authors voice to be dated. Even though Cleo is 29 in the book, she sounds like she must be 40 at least. Completely dated.
I was not that impressed in this book. There was too much jumping around and too many characters. The way the men treated the women and the way they accepted it just irritated me. If people really live that way it saddens me. I didn't really like the style of writing and I have never been a fan of this author but it was free.
Couldn't even finish. Poorly written drivel. Story lines that were convoluted and dialogue that seemed from the 1960's - "groovy", "far out". Really??
Not to compelling.  Good for relaxation and sleep .  Have some joy for peace and quiet.  Jackie Collins is a riot to read-only seems boring after a while,
Expect better from Jackie Collins
I have read every Jackie Collins book, but this one disappointed me.
My first Jackie Collins  novel. Too many better books out there than to waste my time on these types of books. After reading it I had no after thoughts and cared less about the self centered obnoxious characters. Gave it 2 only because I finished it. But why did I???
I couldn't connect with the story although I love the vampire myth. The story is told by Jonathan journals and Mina diaries. The part of Mina diaries was the one that i couldn't connect with. I didn't like the pacing and the story itself.
Its true in its written form, however if I'm using it during a sermon there's no way I can keep up with 2-3 different passages of scripture! It takes an act of Congress just to go from let's say Mark to James! To time consuming and the search engine needs to be Biblical based not secular!
I like to read Jackie Collins so it was an enjoyable read.  didn't see cover until just now as I read it on my kindle.  it seems a little racey
It bounced around to much from person to person and I thought it was a little boring would not recommend it
First few chapters were good and then it list me. I'm sure in its time it was a hit.
I read this book every Halloween but I had to repurchase when I misplaced it in my move. Not a big fan of vampires but I love horror/scary stories in the month of October.
I brought this looking for a searchable bible and had trouble doing so.  You have to use the search option on Kindle in order to do search.  It is acceptable.
The content of the Holy Bible, New King James Version is excellent.  The language is much easier to understand than the Standard King James Version.  The navigation is very poor.  There is no provision to click on one of the 66 books of the Bible and go directly to that book.  The background information given on each book of the bible is great. But when I want to go directly to the 13th chapter of Acts, I find my paper copy to be simpler and easier.
The book was told from the perspective of other characters rather than Count Dracula through letters, telegrams, newsletters, and diary entries.  Although I normally find this style of writing entertaining, I did not enjoy this book.  The diary entries and letters jump from present day with the current narrator to a couple days ago in the life of the next narrator.  This can be quite challenging to keep up with.  The book also consists of a few short, suspenseful, and interesting parts followed by very drawn-out, boring parts.  While the suspenseful moments did capture my attention and emotions, they were not sufficient enough for this book to receive more than two stars.  This book to me very closely resembles a patients heartbeat on a cardiac monitor moments before death.
This Bible is great if you have 20/15 vision. The version is as ordered. However, knowing the price was so low it must not be as advertised, I ordered only one of the 15 I needed. If you 'look on the inside' it shows only 29 verses on page one; however, in the book I received, it not only includes all 31 verses of chapter 1 but also all of chapter 2 and 13 verses of chapter 3.  The font is just too small; I can't give this Bible to individuals whose vision is not almost beyond perfect unless I include a great magnifying glass.
Overrated
One of my favorite books; unfortunately this specific print is poor quality. The typeface is scrunched in some areas making it a bit difficult to read at points.
Didn't hold my interest
I never could get the search by verse to work. Even when I used the examples given in the instructions I would receive a message 0 results for this entry. Frustrating.
didn't like that you can not pull up the book you are looking for by name. I like the other book.
A read one must endure for the sake of empiric knowledge and canon. I think it's Brad Pitt's character in "Interview with the vampire" that mentions this book being written by a drunkard from Ireland. I strongly agree that to endure the letters and diary inscriptions one must in one way or the other try to stay intoxicated, with either hope or Jack Daniels. With that said, it's an important theme and an interesting plot that carries you through it, though beware it's not getting better by the page.  Regards,
A typical King James version of the bible that is not always the easiest to read or follow.  A contemporary bible is simplier to read and understand.
Vampires are over rated.  Boring.
Then words were so small I could not even see to read. Did not advertise very small print. Love the Bible on my Kindle but not paperwork.
A great version, that should have better search software. It is very slow to find somethind you want ot look up.
Navigating the table of contents is a nightmare....every book is followed by a list of chapters so picking a book usually involves turning pages and searching through chapter numbers to find book titles...and the first chapter link on every book is broken...selecting chapter one of any book causes my kindle to turn a page...I'm  very dissapointed...
"The Other Boleyn Girl" is a soaped up version of history. If you enjoy soapy drama, you may like "Boleyn Girl." If it is not your thing then you probably will not. I went into this knowing it would be soapy, and the first half of the book is tolerable in its suds. However, as the book goes on parts of it became overdone. When a tear falls off Mary's cheek and lands on her lover's hand. When he kisses it off she goes "Why? Why did you do that? Why did you kiss the tear off my hand?" The book also isn't big into things like character development, and the second half, which gives Mary a new love interest, greatly lost my attention. The author also fails in her attempts to build Mary up as a strong character -- once she meets her future husband, she loses all her backbone, and always does exactly what he says. I listened to the audiobook, and by the end I just wanted to be finished so I could listen to something else.
It will no open on my Kindle Fire, always get an error message, so I would not recommend this for a Kindle
The general outline of the story remains first rate. However, the hundreds of pages of overly melodramatic dialog are repetitive and ponderous.
I think the cover is beautiful but the fine print is very hard for me to read.  Would not recommend for those who need at least regular size print.
I found it a very difficult read so I then downloaded the english standard version .  It's a much more understandable version.
I purchased this Bible as a gift for a child, but after receiving it, I have decided against this as a gift. The print is very small, too small even for me. The words of Christ are not in red, which I think is very important. The price was inexpensive, but remember you get what you pay for, and I would not recommend this paperback version to anyone.
I didn't really like this product because you couldn't actually search for what chapter and book you wanted I had to scroll just to find which page I wanted I couldn't just look up the book and chapter by just searching... It's not that great peoples.
This is one of those Bibles with no table of contents. So to get to a book, you have to press the forward page button for a LONG time before you get there. I decided to read this Bible from Genesis to Revelations!
I love Dracula but this kindle version was full of grammar and spelling errors.
Meh
My intent was to receive the King James version of the Bible. The new Kings James was too advanced. The receivers were new converts,and the New King James is a bit overwhelming for them.
I really wanted to love this book. Gothic classics are normally my favorites, but this one just didn't do it for me.
What can I say, departure from historical facts is sad and unnecessary, in attempting to make Mary hard done by, when she could have been a saucy devil may care wench, who was the mistress of the King of France (and several others) before she got any where near Henry and survived it all is a worthy story in itself. She was not a 12 year old - she was in fact older then Anne, she was not a virgin when she married, she was wordly wise in the arts of seduction. To portray her as a feeble minded pawn of her wicked uncle I think, does her a great disservice.
Put down Gregory, and pick up Mantel.
I purchased Holy Bible from the Ancient Eastern Text with the understanding that the translation was from the most ancient text and therefore would be more accurate in interpretation than modern day Bibles. To my great disappointment and utter surprise, I find that this Bible includes passages that were added by later writers and scribes, texts that would definitely not have been found in the earliest of manuscripts. Note examples:  Mark 16 is believed to have been added in the 2nd Century Matthew 6: 13B was added in the King James version around 1611 AD! Luke 22:43-44 was also most likely added in the 2nd Century  Mr. Lamsa, do you have an explanation?
I was all excited to read this and it was a complete let down. Defiantly not what I expected
I did not like this bible as I wanted the NLV version and could not find it. I settled for what I thought was the right version but was disappointed when it wasn't the one I wanted.
I don't really like the setup of the pages and index. The chapters kind of run together and there's not a clear, professional separation between them. It would be nice if the pagination were a little sharper and better contrasted.
It's great, except for Susan Duerden as Lucy Westenra. Even though it's not a large portion of the book, she makes her character so breathy and whiny as to nearly ruin the narrative. I found myself contemplating skipping Susan's parts entirely, and just hoping that Lucy would die.
The kindle version is not as user friendly for me.  My fingers are too big to select the book and chapter because they are too close together.  For that reason I will be looking for a replacement.
i did not like it because in couldn't just skip to the chapter or verse that i wanted. i had to go page by page so if u wanted something in the last chapter then u had to go  through each page.
I had to keep reminding myself that this was written in 1897 and things were much different. But I was bored with the whole thing. Stoker was so verbose it was like "just get on with it for pete's sake". And the men in the story; very slow on the uptake. Hello! with Lucy and then Mina.
It's interestingly written, but wildly inaccurate historically. As a Tudor history aficionado, I have to admit that bothered me.
The vinyl transfer to CD is very disappointing. The CD sounds like an AM radio broadcast of the original vinyl recording which sounds warm and inviting with Ms. King's beautiful voice always putting a big smile on ones face. There is none of that on display here in this rather  abysmal transfer.
This critique is not for Bram Stoker, it's for the actual book. I do not like this large frame. The text is as small as any other version; the difference? There are no page numbers. I don't like one bit, but I guess I missed the specs for the size and zero page numbers.
For a classic, this book is not very well written. It is hard to follow and only at times is it easy to feel like you are there. There were only a couple of small parts that were written well. The entire book is written in supposed diaries of various characters. The first part is good and then it gets confusing. I forced myself to read to the end and it is only a good read in the sense that it is a classic and has inspired som many sequels to itself.
I bought this one because the title said kindle audio technology and I want that to listen to at any time but I am unable to access any audio.
I bought this hoping to use it while at church so that I could more quickly 'jump' to the chapter and verse for the sermon.  Instead, it's a little cumbersome as there are no bookmarks / chapters directly linked.  Or if they are, I can't figure out how to make them work properly...  For .99 it's all right but I think I may purchase a better organized copy at some point in the future.  This one doesn't reflect what book you're in, and it's really just not very user-friendly.
Impossible to listen after track 8. Crackling noises and other aural dirt. Amazon replaced the first disc, but the second had the same defects. I would avoid this CD, despite the place Tapestry holds in pop music history, Sad.
I have several in print books by this publisher that are fine, but the Kindle version of their Bible is extremely frustrating to use, especially when trying to access the Bible books and/or their verses. I have deleted it from my Kindle completely..... try another publisher who understands Kindle.
Very condensed version of the original novel.  Deceptively advertised, because you will not find the word "abridged" anywhere--not on the Amazon description, not in the title, and nowhere on the packaging.  It is a great shame, because Christopher Lee would have been the ideal reader of the complete novel.
It took a really long time for me to get into this book, I guess because I never really liked or bonded with the main character. She isn't really a likeable person, neither is her family. The entire first half, I just wanted Anne to be queen so that we could move on from her stalking the king. Then once she was queen, I found that I was more interested in Jane becoming queen. Too bad there isn't a story about her...  Over all, an ok story. Maybe I just wasn't in the right mood to read it right now.
I'm a fond reader of the NKJV Bible and have been searching reviews to purchase one for my Kindle Touch.  I had previously read several reviews of this particular one and noticed that people found it difficult to navigate.  However, when I checked back, the description used all caps to state that it had NEW navigation, implying it is revised and issues addressed.  I did not find this to be true.  It may be fine for just reading, especially daily reading, but to use it along in a sermon at worship or in a bible class, it's useless and very time consuming, which defeats the purpose of a digital version.  Thus, I have returned it and will continue to search for one that I can use for all purposes.
Hard to read. Drags on and on.  However I did have to see how it ended
I was disappointed in the quality of this Bible. The pages were like "newspaper" print, the font was really small. If you're looking for a "cheep" Bible, this is it--if you're giving it to a poor kid or a prisoner who doesn't have a Bible or someone you suspect might just throw it away or scribble in it or something, then it will do the job. But, if you are looking for something to last you for years to come, don't bother with this one, it is scraping the bottom of the barrel. You get what you pay for, and as long as you pay less than $1 for it plus a couple bucks shipping--you got your money's worth.
Didn't like it too well
Amazing album in questionable shape.
This book was SOOO not like the movie as I was expecting it to be.  It was actually so boring I stopped reading it before the end.  I am 93% finished and am tired of reading about their shared journals and shared plans to defeat Dracula. I most likely will not finish it.  I guess Francis Ford Coppola's version of the movie ruined the book for me.
Terrible condition
As other reviewers have indicated, the navigation is difficult. Perhaps the most obvious flaw is the failure to have page headers or footers identifying the book and chapter. Do not expect to get to a particular chapter and verse in a timely manner. The Kindle search takes a long time but will find your chapter for you - after about one minute of wait time.  I have spent more time trying to figure a way to navigate quickly than I have reading.  As others have said, if you are progressing through in a linear manner, it is fine. So far, my best remediation of the poor navigation has been to open the menu (tap the center of a page and then menu icon on the bottom navigation bar) and go to the table of contents. You can page through the ToC links to the book or chapter desired, then carefully touch a book/chapter link (they are small and easy to miss).  The back arrow on the bottom bar will usually return you to where you were originally. Often, I use the Kindle web browser and BibleGateway.com instead if I have WiFi available and need to move quickly to different scriptures.
totally worthless. cant find nothing. Got this to use at church and it would take me too long to find anything. Got another one that is somewhat usable at church but still looking for a better one.
I've read other books by Phillipa Gregory and like them, but I was very disappointed in this one.  I love British history but this one contained too much focus on the sexual explorations of the main characters.  Okay, I know Mary Boleyn had affairs, but I honestly don't need to read about how the king excites her nor about she and William sneak off every chance they can to have sex all night long.  I don't need to hear descriptions of sexual intimacy that includes everything but "doing the deed."
I slogged through this masterpiece, but on almost every page was struck by how grammatically inept this translation is.  English is quite evidently not the translator's native tongue.  It was free, however;  I suppose one "gets" what one pays for.
i downloaded the kjv bible and took my kindle fire to church where there is no wifi connection.  i was under the impression that since i had downloaded it that it would open for me to read anywhere.  have i done something wrong or could someone tell me what to do to get it to work outside of wifi
It is not clear from the description that the audio link is not accessible from the kindle.  I downloaded this for my parents, who already had a free bible on their kindle, but paid for this one so that they could listen to it as well and that is not going to be able to happen.  Don't download this paid version unless you want to listen to it from your computer.
Okay so much fun as the other side effects and drug interactions for you guys think about the position and would like a lot more than happy birthday.
II will admit first of all that I did not finish this book. I had never read a book by Philippa Gregory and since I like historical fiction I thought I would give her books a try. I have never been a fan of romance so that might be why I found this book light on the history and heavy on the romance. It was just not my cup of tea.
I had a hard time navigating this kindle version of the king james bible.  I was at a funeral and forgot my bible, but I remembered I had a bible on my kindle.  I had a hard time getting to the bible books and when I did, I could not get some of the books in the old test. to open(Eph.).  I downloaded another version of the KJ bible, I hope this will help.
Came off a little preachy. Shaky character development. That one character just disappears for 18 years and then there he is again, back with no explanation. Plenty of sex and violence, though.
I find it offensive that the publishers take it upon themselves to actually print the author of this book is God. Does God get royalties?  Did God sit down and write it?  I was under the impression the Bible was a body of books written by men who were inspired by God or writing the words of God which is not God writing it.  There is a difference as far as I'm concerned.
A great book until about halfway through. Would have been marvelous if edited more. I only knew the first part of the story from the movies, but the aftermath was more interesting.  But too protracted.
I'd have to say I liked Bullfinch's Mythology better. The stories seemed more real and the characters more believable than this "god" character. If you're looking for myths, go pick up Bullfinch. You won't be disappointed.
Its absolutely awful and very boring do yourself a favor and don't read this
"Henry the VIII and his fistful of wives" has been popular reading for me and my contempraries who grew up in Indiain the 1960s. I recently had time to read "The other Boleyn girl". I inhaled it rather quickly because the topic was of interest to me and also because Phillipa Gregory cast of characters was very predictable. I agree with C. Spinney "tunispinney" (Reston, VA United States) that it is more like a pithy gossip novel. The historical facts could have been handled more delicately and the characters brought to life in a more sensitive manner. They do appear predicatable like a comic book. Mary is the "dumb-blond" Anne is the" Mata-Hari". Henry is the "pompous-...". Jane Seymour the " Simpering-ninny".....   I think readers who loved this book just like to eat their meals predigested. I have an interesting idea though, I wonder if someone else would write this book with a modern twist. What if ultrasound, amniocentesis and genetic counselling was available to KIng Henry and his wives? Probably Endland would have considered artificial insemination????Boggles the mind, but perhaps fewer queens would have gotten the axe.
Just ok for me
With so many BETTER books about the Tudor court available, why bother to read this flighty one that reads more like a cheap romance novel than historical fiction? The dialog is insipid; I don't need the characters to speak in authentic period dialog, but I do need them to sound like the intelligent and well educated courtiers they were. I haven't read any of Gregory's other work, but after starting with this book I won't be back. The best thing about the book is that it reads quickly and is over fast.
Lots of filler music, and too much repeating music to fill Cd and packaged poorly.
inexpensive doesnt necessarily mean the best quality. missing verses i.e. john 7:37-52. then it jumps right into chap 8. i had to flip back to the amlified (kindle download by zondervan) to read the rest of His word. thank goodness i had the other version.
This album was in worse shape than advertised. After extensive cleaning it still snaps, crackles and pops. Buying albums sight usseen is a risky proposition. Sellers need to be precise and straightforward when it comes to describing condition.
not so good
I devoured this book in two days.  The author's writing style compels you to keep turning pages...you have to find out what (usually awful)  It is kind of like seeing roadkill, you want to look away, but you just have to find out what the heck that thing was... I found the book to be somewhat disturbing in several parts.  When I got done, I felt satisfaction at being finished with it, but unable to really recommend it to anyone in that it really was depressing to follow all the characters through bad choices and the farce of their lives.  I think the author is a very talented writer - but I didn't care for the storyline.
Bram Stoker must have been paid by the word for this book. The story started out well, but as it progressed it became more and more laborious to read. Dull, dull, dull.
fine
Couldn't keep my interest.  I love historical books but it seemed too long for me.
i was disappointed in the quality of this bible and i agree with an earlier review that the item as pictured here is not the same as the cover of the bible that you actually receive
Great price but the print is way toooo small!!!  Consider another option if your eyes are 40 years or older!
I bought this version with hopes of being able to get through with little problems, not so.  While using it in bible study, verses were missing, yes missing. I turned page and it was a new chapter.  Navigating is horrible, you have to go to table of contents and flip through to chapter and verse and when you need it quick this will not work.  I do not recommend this verse due to poor navigation.
I had such hopes for this as it touted navigation simplicity. It is not simple. Rather it brings my Kindle to a screeching halt when I try to navigate, usually requiring rebooting. I have over 700 books on my Kindle and this is the only one that does it. Hard on a girl to delete the KJV from her Kindle, but that is what I am going to do.
this does not have the following: 1) topical running heads 2) self-pronouncing text  the printing is ok but the page cuts are not consistent.
expected much more since this is a classic however I found it very boring, i'm 95% through and cannot wait to finish it just to be done
I think this would like to be taken as a plausible fictionalisation of history told from an unusual perspective but it's really just a romance in fancy dress and hence not my cup of tea.
For lovers of the development of the English language this is an excellent concept - here we have the original spellings, vocabulary, un-corrected errors, layout, punctuation and italicization. The only difference from the original KJV 1611 is that the Gothic print has been replaced by the Roman. That is probably a good thing.  Now the criticism: Whereas the external leather binding is sturdy and durable the internal pages present Major problems - they are ridiculously thin, far too flimsy and, even with very careful handling, will be prone to creasing/blemishes/shabbiness/and tears. A great shame as this detracts - in my view - from the worthwhileness of buying this particular Edition! Why on earth did not Hendrickson ( Publishers ) charge a little more so as to produce more robust pagination? After all, the Bible is to be read and used - not to stand un-touched on some shelf.  Overall I cannot recommend this version.
The navigation is thoughtless....  You will spend more time locating a verse then reading it...  Not to mention, once you are there there is no way to tell what book or chapter you are in...  UGH!
This Bible version for the Kindle is cumbersome to use.  It's not easy to get to a particular book or chapter without paging through.  Even if you use the table of contents, you still have to page through there as well.  Also, once you are in the particular book or chapter, there is nothing to tell you what book of the bible you are reading.  Unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be a really good, regular New King James Version for the Kindle yet.
The sound quality is pretty bad. I guess I was hoping it would be re-mastered.
This abridgement completely butchers the book.  I have never before experienced an abridgement that left out so much important information and that was this choppy.  Although the reader is quite good, I can't recommend this form of this book.
Too small, the size of a recipe card. Font too small. Returned to Amazon.
With an emphasis on the "fiction" part! This could've been a really good novel but it fell way short.  I guess I just prefer historical fiction to be well, historical!
I have always order my books from Amazon. Com with great success. But I paid for a new Holy Bible : 1611 Edition. I received a used one. Was very disappointed I wanted it for a gift. So I returned it still waiting on my refund.  Carole
Occasionally fascinating, sometimes provocative, more often than not badly written, boring, repetitious, incoherent, out of date, morally questionable.  Clearly written by ignorant and arrogant propagandists a long time ago.  Clearly not written by any kind of God worth worshipping.
The first song skips.  The rest of the CD is great.  Would love one that plays the whole thing!
My friend gave me this book since she knew I liked historical novels.  Let's get one thing straight.  This is a fictional account on some historical and empirical facts.  So with that in mind, this book is nothing else but a harlequin romance novel.  If you enjoy this genre, then you will like this book.
I did not enjoy this book at all. The writing style bored me to tears. I hope the movies are better.
I would have been happy with a condensed version. I thought it was tenious
The text is fine; it's readable, although I prefer paragraph layout (this book is in verse layout: each verse starts a new line.)  The only real problem I have is that while there are bookmarks for each book, there are no bookmarks for the chapters. So if you need to get deep in to a book, you have to flip through LOTS of pages. The NIV Bible here goes too far: it has verse bookmarks (that's a little TOO much detail.)
I have several Bible translations on my Kindle (NIV, NET, ESV, NKJV) and I waited for months for the publisher (Thomas Nelson) to finally release the Kindle edition of the NKJV. I went so far as to write to the publisher and was told that they were taking time to make sure they got it just right.  The other translations have the table of contents setup so that at the beginning of each Bible book the chapters have links so that you can jump to them.  With the NKJV Kindle edition there are no chapter links so to get to Isaiah Chapter 50 you have to page through until you get there.  To make matters worse, you can't tell what chapter you are in except on the first page of each.  (see the NET Bible which has chapter and verse notation.
Historical mistakes aside, and there are many (take for example the age of the Boleyn sisters), this book is just poorly developed.  There is very little historical in this historical fiction, but I would be willing to overlook that if there was a compelling lead character or cast of characters.  Alas, it is not to be. Anne Boleyn plays the wicked step-sister and Mary a rather disappointing narrator. A passive character can be an interesting character and the inner-turmoils, the love and hate between siblings can make for powerful stuff; but here it is watered down into melodramatic pastiches.  The author was not able to draw me into the time period nor the characters. In fact, the characters would have been more at home in a modern setting, in a Desperate Housewives universe than Tudor England.  The writing is not extremely lyrical or brilliant to forgive the mistakes I've mentioned above.  Overall, I found it a rather mediocre read. A shame, for I rather wanted to like it.
Bible size and font size are great, but I received this product in its original packaging and there was a big scratch across the cover. I wanted to have it embossed and given as a gift, but had to buy another bible at a book store so I could guarantee the quality. I was very disappointed.
I have to admit, I usually do not like historical fiction...this book was no exception. I read half, and read the end because it was boring.....
Th use of the expressions [LARGE PRINT] and (Leather Bound) are misleading, as pointed out by earlier reviewers.  I am now selling the book, unread.
This book was great for the first 200 pages or so, and at first I could not put it down, but after that it was all downhill.. the same things happend over and over again.. so much drama about such stupid things ! It became boring and predictable.  It was hard to make myself finish this book.
Honestly, I found the old testament to be a very interesting read, but I never was able to get through the new testament.  If it was just the old I'd probably 4 star it.
I probably shouldn't have seen the movie first.  The ending is real trippy, but it takes too long to get there.  There's a huge cliffhanger at the end that was probably a set up for a sequel that will never be written, though.  The first half is better.  In fact, you can totally disregard the second part entirely.  It was an unnecessary addition.  The author accomplishes everything needed by the end of the first part.
There is an unfortunate trend towards the quasi-historical in popular novels today, and some rather terrible books get written in order to cash in on it.  The Other Bolyn Girl is one of these books - it could have been better, it could have been *great* - but it was damaged by lack of research, childish writing, and the author's obvious purpose to cater to bored housewives and sex-crazed sorority sisters.  If you're looking for serious fictionalized history, this is not the place to get it.  You'll be disappointed.  But if you need something to read on an 8-hour trans-Atlantic flight, then perhaps it's almost readable.
The description said it was a leather bound Bible and when it arrived it was leatherette.
This book reads like a romance novel and doesn't have much depth. The characters aren't very well defined and they seem two dimensional.  I've read other much better historical novels than this.
I must say that I am really surprised with the overwhelming positive reviews of this book.  I am an avid reader, particularly of historical fiction.  This novel felt like a Harlequin Romance novel to me.  While I did not learn much about the time period in which it was set, I did learn quite a bit about how to seduce my husband!  So, depending on your interests...
The product I received was great, but it was not the item that I expected to receive; it was lacking in a few points of which I could not compromise. Therefore The item was returned.
I should have known better, the price was too good. The Bible was in no way leather, the pages are a very cheap, poor quality. This is a Bible to leave around home. I wish I had read the reviews. Will need to reorder ! ! !
While any Bible is nice to have, this book is misrepresented as being leather which it is not. The print size is probably about 12 point, possibly a little bigger, but not what I would call giant. I don't think anyone produces a real leather bible for less than 30 dollars, so you get what you pay for. That said, Nelson could do better in this price range.
The book was not very good quality and we returned it without problem because of our dissatisfaction.  The bible itself is always good and deserves five stars, but this particular one is not well printed.
Were Mary and Joseph married at the time of The Nativity? Or were they merely engaged? A comparison of Luke 2:5 in various Bible versions yields interesting results. The older Bible translations mantain that Mary and Joseph were married, while the newer translations claim that they were engaged. The New King James Version is no exception, in that "betrothed wife" is substituted for "espoused wife". Changing "espoused" to "betrothed" does little to modernize the language and much to change the meaning of the passage.  Does this matter? People who believe that the church has a duty to discourage last minute marriages may find the image of Joseph escorting his heavily pregnant fiancee to Bethlehem a little disconcerting. It also contradicts Matthew 1:24,25 in which the couple are safely married long before the blessed event. I was just coming to believe that the New King James Version was a safe and worthy successor to the old King James Version when I discovered this. Now I think I will stay with the old version. The language may be a little archaic but it has been around for almost 400 years, and there are no surprises. People who want a modern language King James Version should consider the 21st Century King James Version  (KJV21) in which the updating was done much more conservatively.
Awful boring and slow book.  Most "classic" I have read were a bit of a trudge.  This ranks right up there with reading ALL of Jane Austin
Judging from other reviews, this book seems to fall into either the "love it or hate it" category. As an ardent Anne fan I was naturally disappointed in it but I can understand why others were not. It is a good plot read and gives a new spin on what is ultimately the story of Anne rather than Mary Boleyn. However, I also noted a lot of historical mistakes - the least of which was a complete omission of Mary's scandalous past in France - and the writing style was just left of bad romance novel. I recommend a much earlier Anne book called "Brief Gaudy Hour" by Margaret Campbell Barnes.
The compact NKJV with Snap-Flap is a good, portable edition to carry around. However, in my opinion, Nelson Bibles are typically of very poor quality and durability---the Bibles are glue-bound instead of being sewn, and their life expectancy is limited. Again, in my opinion, snap-flap Bibles are a nuisance, with the flap hanging in your way as you handle the Bible when open. If you must have this edition, try it without the snap-flap.
one of the hardest books I have ever read! maybe that's how books where written back then. I was able to follow the story only because I saw the movie.
It probably was a game changer during its time but it also was laden with religious undertones that are not my preference for reading materials
The Other Bolyen Girl was okay. But it had a lot of historical problems. First of all it has Anne as being Mary's older sister, but really its the other way around. It also has Anne as this horrible person, when she wasn't. It has Anne stealing Henry from Mary and wanting to be Queen, but Anne never wanted this. All Anne wanted was to marry Harry Persy. Also it has an actual affair between Anne and George which NEVER happened. Also the sexual scenes are too much in the book. Tell me they had sex, but don't tell me every little detail! Other than all the wrong stuff about Anne this book was okay. WARNING! Do not read this book if you don't want to hear all about other peoples problems and how they made themselves the victim!
I wanted to like this book, as Stoker's "Dracula" has been the key inspiration for much of the vampire movement today. While I'm not a fan of much of the modern vampire mania (I couldn't stomach the ridiculousness of "twilight"), I do find some vampire tales entertaining. My initial draw to read "Dracula" came after thoroughly enjoying Elizabeth Kostava's "The Historian". That book focused so much on Stoker's "Dracula" that I was too intrigued to not pursue this as my next read.  My main issue with this book was the pacing. Perhaps the slow pace was meant to be suspenseful. For me, it made the story seem to drag. It was also a bit too predictable at points, though maybe back when the book was originally written it wasn't.
Because u asked. I enjoyed  it for night time reading. Bram Springer call tell a yarn. It was a good read. Thank you. Free
Everything I feel about this book has already been said.  It is slow moving and riddled with historical inaccuracies.  I can forgive the boring writing style, because it is not my type of book.  The incorrect facts, however, are harder to ignore.  There are very few facts known about Mary Bolyen it shouldn't be too hard to keep them straight.  That being said, if the story interests you, read it merely as a work of fiction.  Then, get some Alison Weir for the history.
I liked how it started, with the beheading of a relative.  And details of court life were interesting, at the beginning, but became tedious with the repetitiveness.  This book really could have been half or one-third the size, it drug on and on and on.  Getting to the end was a relief, I doubt I'll read another book by this author.
The classic book, good but I've read and seen so many other versions it was not my favorite read, didn't finish it.
Im going to be honest and say that I only read the first 4 chapters of this book. I started it as part of a book club and its basically a bunch of journal entires of people having encounters with Count Dracula. The entries felt like they were filled with boring details and only a few bits about how the Count was strange or scary added in at the end. I found myself skimming alot to only find that in the 4 chapters I read/skimmed there was only one or two very very brief scenes that had me involved on a scary level. There are other I'm books Im waiting to read that are less mundane so this book is done for me.
I didn't realize that "Import" meant that the CD would not be an original but a re-recorded CD. Am not happy and have not decided whether I will bother to return the CD or not.
This is a re-packaging gimmick beyond belief. At the price being asked, you would think Carol would throw in some new material. Shame, shame Carol!
I received my item in good time and in good shape.  But the two CD set turned out to be the same CD twice.  I was very disappointed.
Wooden plot, wooden characters, wooden language.  There was nothing in this book for which I could recommend it.  Even the ending fell flat.
Too surrealistic for me as well as gory. At times I lost track of which character was the bad guy
The story line is nothing new.  The most interesting part of the story is the way it is told which is the use of  19th century style of discourse.  The story itself bored me and I stopped reading half way through.  I am a hard core reader so it takes quite a bit to cause me to give up.
I've read the female empowerment stuff in here. Huh? "Where you lead, I will follow" There are quite a few others in a similar vein. Maybe it's just all these years of changing sounds and expectations, but boy do these lyrics and arrangements sound lame. "Ain't it good to know you've got a friend when people can be so cold." That doesn't qualify as poetry in my lexicon. Spare performances--they changed the way singer-songwriters performed, but this is like watching black and white TV. Interesting, but without the color it feels washed out, not vibrant and intense. This is just one person's opinion--but I have surprisingly little interest in hearing these again.
The transforming of the book to its Kindle version was obviously done by more than one person, and at least one of them did not have English as their native tongue.  There were many grammatical errors such as the use of incorrect verb tenses, the wrong article or the omission of an appropriate article, missing words, and wrong words.  If you are looking for a good version of this classic, I would suggest a different version.  I was greatly disappointed.
I have seen almost every Dracula movie made and they seem so far off from this story it is ridiculous.  It was work to read this novel, painfully boring and repetitive.  Dracula was almost non existent in it.  His story is the only reason I finally read this book.  I am very disappointed to say the least.  If you want to keep a romanticized idea of the Dracula from the movies and television, do not read this book.
A very old "Chic Flick" book. How do you say, ' a waste of time' or 'appeals to the women readers'? in Romanian, O pierdere de timp O carte care face apel la femei  thanks G translate.  This is the original Gothic romance novel. It is easy to see how "Interview with the Vampire" and the "Twilight Series" books, (both written by women) came from. While the prose is  a delight to read and the supporting descriptions and details prove the quality of the writing, this book is a let down. I grew up wondering how good this book was and see it is much ado about nothing. I suppose for it's time it was shocking and scandalous but by today's standards just anti-climactic. My greatest curiosity is who read the book when it was first published? I thought women were not sent to school in the 1890's so how many women could read this book and would have had the cash to buy a copy?
Yes, I know, its a classic book...it's got its place in history.  That doesn't mean it is an interesting book.  It's tough to read and incredibly droll.  Read it because its a classic, but not because you like reading.
such a vague, slow read. Jonathan's journal is very captivating in the beginning and everything else is seemingly dead, and incredibly dragged out. the flip-flopping back and forth between the dates was annoying and unnecessary. stoker could have also put much more detail. the counts feature did not display much of a picture in my mind.
It was very confusing to read!!! It didn't really tell me how Dracula died!!!! Also It didn't tell me how Lucy's mom died!!!!!
Not that the story is bad - the book is actually very well written - but you already know the ending. Nothing is added about the background, thoughts and life of Dracula. Not even his rage to be condemned to live forever. Go watch Nosferatu, with Klaus Kinski - at least, he addresses these points.
Chock-full of horrendous typoes...weird characters, periods in the middle of sentences, etc.  Formatting worked fine with Kindle in Landscape view, but was bad for Portrait.  Half the suspense is wondering what will be missing.  If I had paid any more than 99 cents, I would be indignant.
Its a classic book therefore a must read. While I typically love all things vampire, this book was dry and I just  was not into it.
I went in expecting something reminiscent of every Dracula movie I had ever seen. Considering they were based on this work, I was somewhat disappointed by it. I'll be the first to admit that I'm not really a fan of classic literature because I find it tedious to read. However, I do read it because it is classic literature. Considering that Dracula is portrayed as a lustful character by every movie-maker ever, I was surprised to find that this was absolutely not the case in this book. I did, however, like that it was written in journal entries/letters because this was a nice way to break up some of the tedium. I got this to read on the Kindle app on my phone. I noticed a bunch of spacing/formatting errors while reading it as well.
Somehow I managed to read this one cover to cover, but only through a monumental effort. I found this book to be the driest I have ever read, and that includes Great Expectations, War of the Worlds, and Moby Dick. The only reason I forced myself to get through it was because I felt that in order to properly critique modern versions of vampires, I needed to know the appearance and abilities of the original.  Dracula is undoubtably a beautiful example of the period's writing, but when it comes to horror, the story falls flat.
This was one of the first books I read on my Kindle and got it because it was free.  Thank God I didn't waste money on it.  I found it hard to follow and not very engaging.  I think I will stick with Anne Rice for my vampires.
I assign two stars--even though the research is thorough and the references are researched to the utmost--for an overarching reason that cannot be dismissed, no matter how we wish to wave our gaily bedecked flags and praise the book to the skies:  Dracula (by Bram Stoker) is a dreadfully, pitifully boring book. It is an utter befuddlement (I almost wrote "bedufflement," but it's one of those, too) that any modern reader can make it to page three without fainting away.  And _that's_ the bottom line.
Letters and memos back and forth between characters.  Book just hard to follow.  Learned a lot about the story I didn't know though.
I love Dracula. It's about as good as a horror story gets.  The old-fashioned language of the narrative is perfect for laying out a tale of innocence and purity corrupted and transformed into the epitomy of evil.  When I bought the illustrated edition, I suppose I expected drawings that would evoke the same sense of dreamlike dread that Stoker's words created.  Boy, was I wrong.  The illustrations in this version of Dracula are straight out of the graphic novel stylebook, and add absolutely nothing to the story.  In fact, their anachronistic quality is an unpleasant distraction from the author's carefully crafted descriptions of characters and settings.  I found myself wondering if the cartoonist and I had read the same passage, because there was little, if any, resemblance between what I saw and what I had read.  I'm not sure why I decided on this version of the book in the first place, but I'll be sure never to do it again.  The illustrations are big, awkward cartoons of characters that sometimes look like they're straight out of Scooby Doo and at other times could have been pulled from one of the more lurid works of the artists of the graphic novel genre.  Don't buy this illustrated mess.
I don't understand. I don't understand, why this has so many great reviews.  I have read Frankenstein, I have read Dickens, Wilkie Collins, Hardy. Some of the best Victorian writers and I don't find this book to be that well written.  I honestly have to say, I find it so excrutiatingly boring, dull, poorly written that I can't get past forty pages.  Frankestein is great! I will die happy knowing that I have never read this hideously boring book!!!
Boorrriiinnngggg. Skip this one.
I bought the book from amazon as it was $1 rather than looking for another version. After getting part way in I had to find another version as the formatting was weird and hard to read.  The book is great, I just wouldn't buy it from Amazon unless they have fixed the formatting for kindle.
Just not my cup of tea.  The description of the land and area was masterful but still not my kind of book.
The first 50 pages of the book are thrilling, is a murder conspiracy and they made everything to complete their assignment, but when Mary decides to be the ambassador of Romania, the book get boring and boring unless you want to know how an ambassador must behave with everybody everywhere, when the book starts explaining this, you will get lost of the main story that has to many voids, of course as in these kind of books the end is a fairy tale and the epilog is made to keep the story open, sincerely I don't recommend this book, there are many spies books much better than this one.
A lot going on switching backwards and forwards from diary to diary left me staggering to keep track of the plot and characters. Very boring indeed
The story is marvelous. Unfortunately this version seems to have been scanned by a group of drunk monkeys. I have never seen so many scan errors in my life. Shame
Am i the only one having this problem?  I was so excited when i discovered the Penguin Clothbound Classics because i decided i wanted to start a little collections and read some classic novels.  However, i was severely let down by how poor the book design is. The book itself is to small; yet, thick and hard to hold open when reading. Also, what bothers me even more, the beautiful foil design on the book's cover rubs away onto your hands while you're reading. I'm only a quarter of the way through the book and i'm afraid the pretty design will be completely rubbed off by the time i finish. Now, i have no desire to purchase more in the collection, and am thinking about returning the book if possible.  I was so excited about how nice the books looked, but they don't seem to be made for actually handling and reading. Very upsetting. So, if you want a collection that looks nice on the shelf, but you never plan to read. Then, the Penguin Clothbound Classics are perfect for you.
I realize my heresy in saying so, but Dracula is painfully overwritten, overwrought, and overrated.  There are about 20 good pages which are countered by over 450 of pure dreck.  Don't even get me started with Van Helsing's painful "dialect," which is like the worst writing of Twain and Stephen Crane when they did the same thing.  The myth and idea of the Count have staying power, but the novel is as dull as dirt.  I know all the critical reasons for its popularity, but all of these strike me as very strained.
Maybe I just started reading it with the wrong idea in mind but it seemed rather boring to me. The first chapter was absolutely chilling as was the ship scene, but the rest of the book was just dull. However its free so by all means read read read.
i am a freshmen in highschool reading at a colledge level i have read atlas shrugged,frankenstein and many books by shakespear but this confuses me but still a good book
This is one which people who don't care about the puzzle may enjoy, as there is a lot of theater detail.  But the plot is limp and dull. One her rare failures.
I don't especially care for scary movies or books, so I've avoided this book over the years. However, with the preponderance of vampire lit in our culture I thought I'd finally crack the binding of this book. I didn't find it particularly spine-chilling or evocative-- perhaps I'm deadened to such paltry imagery summoned here compared with our modern mediums. Still, the plot was decent and as the progenitor of so much culture within the hoi polloi it is consistent with the recommendation of a must read.
I was very excited to read this story and I understood it would be a harder read. I was quickly pulled into the story but it seemed never ending. It is one time that I would say watch the movie!
After watching and reading vampire stories through the years I was a little ashamed that I knew nothing of the original vampire(Dracula) and decided to take a shot at the book.  This is where personal opinions come into place, the book that has been considered a classic for many years in my opinion is lacking in a lot of things that would make the story more interesting.  The story is boring to me and for the first time ever I considered the movie "Dracula" by Francis Ford Coppola much better than the book by a big stretch.
I was intending to buy a novel for my nephew, one which I had read unabridged and enjoyed immensely.  Unfortunately, I didn't realize that the "editor" was in fact an "abridger" and that lots of the original text was gone.  This abridgement was not listed under book details;  I wish I had scrolled down to the reveiws.  Now I have to go through the hassle of return, shipping charges, etc.
This book contained too many details that did not matter. Also, too many simultaneous events happening for someone that never reads a book cover-to-cover in a few days.
Written in a journal form of various character, it chronicles Dracula, the vampire from Romania, venturing into London.  The first 100 pages of the book are mesmerizing, the journal of Jonathan Harker traveling and staying in Dracula's castle is amazing.  The fear, the dread, the sinister Count and elegant prose all add to feel of a great horror novel.  Then the rest of the book comes along.  What once was a horror movie becomes pure Victorian drivel, with laughably divination for the two females, Lucy and Mina, that not only destroys the readability with the extreme flowery nature of their banalities, but detracts from the true horror that Stoker brings about in the first 100 pages.  The last fifty pages are interesting, as they are on the quest to destroy Dracula, but the drudgery of language and the previous 300 pages destroy all hope of enjoying this book.
Bram Stoker wrote the perfect gothic novel, and Jan Needle (so-called "editor") has butchered it in this edition.  This is NOT Bram Stoker's original novel, it is an abridged version.  Whole passages are missing, condensed or summarized.  The language has been modernized, and the story has lost much of its period flavor. Poor Mr. Stoker must be turning in his grave.  Admittedly, some younger readers might appreciate not having to cope with a novel written in Victorian English, and the simplified delivery might suit some readers.  But remember- this is a PERIOD novel, and translating it into contempory language inevitably and irredeemably changes its character.  On a plus side, the wonderful illustrations lend atmosphere, and the blood-soaked pages are suitably grisly.
This is a classic that is not well written, hard to follow, and after so much buildup, rather boring.  It is a wonderful example of a mediocre novel that really truly came to life in film, and in the many knockoffs that it spawned, but itself fails to measure up.  I simply did not find it an engaging read that transported me to another time and universe with its own rules, which was what I had hoped for.  Now, I try to read these classics naively and on their own merits, and I must say that this is one of the more disappointing experiences I have had.  This is a matter of taste, but I would warn readers that they may find it similarly, well, bad.  Not recommended.
While there are a few compelling elements and episodes in this book, they are overshadowed and weighed down so heavily by tedious tangents into government machinations, legality of government actions, and military equipment/maneuvers that interest is quickly lost. People have said that the books are always better than the movies; in this case the movie-makers salvaged an awesome movie from boring source material.
If I had to describe this book with one word it would be long.  This book goes on forever.  It wouldn't be so bad if it were interesting, but long stretches of this book are very dry and boring.  It takes several hundred pages to set up the story, and much of this is wasted on extensively describing characters and subplots that have very little to do with the main story.  When the main part of the story is going, it goes very well.  There is intrigue, suspense, exciting gunplay, and surprises that are typical of Clancy novels.  But there is so much in between that the book as a whole drags.  In addition, the discussions about the rape early in the book and the foul language did nothing to contribute to the story, and in fact detracted greatly from it.
It's getting a bit long in the tooth now. Bram Stokers Dracula was a good book for it's time, but alas times have changed. There are a whole new breed of horror writers focusing on the vampire element in this day and age. You would be better of focusing on one of them. Dracula may be the most famous Vampire of them all, but if it's a good blood curdling horror story you are after there are many, more evil and fierce than he ever was. It's more like a warped version of beauty and the beast. The characters have that kind of melodramatic foppishness that comes with the period it's set in. If you've ever read anything by Brian Lumley then this book may be somewhat disappointing.
I guess I'm not a great fan of Clancy. I loved Red Storm Rising though, because of it's abundance of military knowledge, action, suspense and plot. I mean that is a book that has a huge amount of content and justifies being  1000 pages long. But all of his other books, including CAPD are 250 page  novels expanded with boring tedious detail. Someone should go to his books  cut out all the needless blurb and release it. I would buy it as it's clear  there is a good plot at work, but following it is like reading through  treacle.
....but rather pulpish.  It says something about a book when some of the movie versions are actually better.  Good light adventure, but no real depth, with the Count being just a cardboard bad guy. He's plenty evil all right, but the more psychologically minded reader less inclined to moralizing (and flag-waving) will wonder, "What's behind this?" and not find satisfaction. If you want a tragedy with real depth to it, read Shelley's FRANKENSTEIN.
Disappointing - the main plot is quite good, but Clancy's subplots slow things down and get in the way (especially the Coast Guard scenes) and are unbelievable. The techno parts which give this and and his other books their uniqueness, also cause things to slow down. Also I don't know if I had a defective binding, but several scenes were repeated in my copy. Better editing would  have vastly improved this work.
Dracula by Bram Stoker is a classic novel of the 19th century. There is no question about that. Anyone investigating 19th century Western literature or who has a keen interest in disturbing fiction should read this novel. Indeed, Freudian, Darwinist, Niethzean, and Socialist forces were changing the West in the 1800's, and Stoker effectively uses them to frighten the reader. However, Amazon. Com wasn't convenient in the 19th century; it wasn't around. Similarly, what scared middle class Britons in the 19th century just isn't disturbing any longer. So if you want to read a disturbing fiction to be truly disturbed, avoid this. If you want to read a classic 19th century novel, read something by Dickens. Avoid this novel unless you have an acute interest in specifically  reading it.
When the main character was in the Count's castle I had a great time!  I thought, this book is great, it can only get better, boy was I wrong.  It went to London, and stayed there too long, the dead woman thing dragged on way to long.  I didn't even finish it.  I'm willing to give it another chance latter but for now, forget it.
I don't know if I want to read book 2 on this series. It took forever to get through the book. It started out really good, but for whatever reason just seemed to drag on for quite a while. The way the book headed was not what I expected at all so that was a twist. I don't believe in giving any spoilers, but it starts out like a normal book, then delves into other realms.  I like Clive Barker's stories, but unless you are in the mood for a long ride, don't start it. This book is just okay in my opinion. His stories are usually dark and bleak and wonderfully scary but this one just seemed to be a little off for him. I will try to read the 2nd book, but I will wait until I'm in that type of mood. That being said, Clive is a wonderful author and I don't want to make it sound like I don't like his work because I do. This one just wasn't my cup of tea.
I found this book to be very wordy and quite strange. I also read the following book in this series. Don't plan to read more of his work.
Two men come into contact with some arcane information, and end up on opposite sides of a battle to gain control and power. The battle continues through the next generation, when their children and others become involved. It is just not as interesting as some of his other work, I think, despite the horror and magic themes that abound.
I actually bought this book because of the great reviews. I was hoping for a gem. I had to  actually force myself to continue to read it. I just couldn't find myself attached to any of the characters. I had absolutely no bond with the characters. Clive Barker is an excellent, beautiful writer. He is definitely gifted. I loved the concept of the book, but I just wish that the story was more developed. Mostly about what EXACTLY is the Art. I needed to know more about Quiddity, it's history, the Shoal, Kissoon. What exactly did Jaffe read in those letters to drive his ambition. Why did he believe those letters? I tried to get attached to the characters. Even the Good Man Fletcher. But something was missing from the characters. They lacked depth. Death boy was overboard. It's as if Barker is writing specifically for a movie. A "B" horror flick at that.
This was a great book but this is an AWFUL abridgement.  Literally, the tapes (672 pages boiled down to two audio cassettes) should be call THEGTW as that is how boiled down it is. Whole characters are gone.  Whole story lines are discarded.  Stephen King once said that he won't ever allow abridgements and now I understand why.  Clive, if you are reading this...did you actually ok there tapes.  They are really bad. DO read the novel. DO NOT buy, rent or borrow this horrific abridgement.
I mean... wasn't VC Andrews a rite of passage for a whole generation of girls? So I reread it knowing that the books were a little twisted but not only is the theme of the book beyond creepy, its poorly written. Pages and chapters full of exposition with no plot or even conversation. Just a little girls thoughts. And even when things do happen, its just sort of oh well. I can see where a 12 year old might enjoy how scandalous this book is, but reading it in my 40s, its just awful.
it was ok drag out a lot not my favorite from VC andrews
Audrina has always lived in the shadow of her older, deceased sister. Daddy wants her to meet up to the standards of his firstborn, but how can she ever live up when she can barely even remember one day to the next?  2/5 stars. I've enjoyed other VC Andrews titles I've read, but this one was such a dreadful chore to work through. When I finally skimmed the last fifth or so of it, I found an ending that was predictable and disappointing.
Only the beginning and the end are good. Its very hard to stay interested in this one, but I had to read it to feel complete
Dont like the way they end
The first 100 pages were very boring and dated.  I had to stop reading. Loved the other Tom Clancy books.
Ordered this to fill out the last missing piece of the series.  Returned it because I did not realize that the format was small print and narrow margins in addition to the book's overall size being reduced.  Ordered another version that matches the first edition format and my 88 year old spouse was thrilled.
To long. Jumps around a lot which makes keeping track of characters difficult
The editor must have been on a mental vacation or hard drugs. The character of Jillian was referred to as 'Julian' time and time again and a Chinese character made it into the middle of a sentence! Many parts of the book were copied and pasted from previous books in the series. The storyline was good although not comparable to the others in the series.
I wasn't really able to finish this book.  It just never caught my attention that way that other V. C. Andrews books did.  I found it sort of boring.
I have always loved V.C. Andrews work.  My review is not of the writing, storyline or, at times, impossible plots but is of the editing. While reading this e-version I found over 54 editing typos and mistakes. It seems to me that if we're going to SELL a book, of any kind, we should edit!! I am dissapointed by the publishing company releasing something that shows how little they truly care about their customers.
This book is hilariously bad! Overwrought and ridiculous, all the suspense is pretty laughable. You just want to push the main character down a flight of stairs after awhile. If you like unintentionally funny books, this one will have you rolling.
The same events could have happened, minus 200 pages of continuing saga of Annie being mistreated by Tony.  Her character is whiny, boring, and vapid; I just wanted it all to end.
I'm a big fan of VC Andrews, but I found myself disappointed with this book. There were continuity problems, typos, and some of the dialogue between Tony and Annie could have been cut and pasted from the previous books. It seemed like the publishers were in a hurry to churn out the next book, without having proofread this one first. One of the things that irritated me most was a small thing, granted, but still annoying. I have the paperback, and on page 132, Annie whines about not wearing the charm bracelet from Luke. What charm bracelet? I flipped back through the previous chapters, and this was the first time it was ever mentioned. The author also talks about a bracelet from Drake that just mysteriously appeared, also. Apparently, the author can't seem to get the story straight. And, yes, Annie is a bit of a whiner. This is how I would rate the Casteel series (from favorite to least favorite):  1) Heaven  2) Dark Angel  3) Web of Dreams  4) Fallen Hearts (the ghost writer's debut)  5) Gates of Paradise  Makes one wonder what the real VC Andrews would have written if she were still alive.
It's not that it's written terribly, it's just that it was incredibly predictable.  And the ending was absolutely horrid!  I mean, come on, it is SO sending the wrong message to people who may be trapped in an abusive relationship.
I had trouble latching onto the characters except for the military on Iceland.  There were too many things happening.  I do understand that is the way in war, but harder to make interesting in a book.  I like his Jack Ryan book much better.
The product info said hardcover but I received a paperback, I'm not complaining I just wish I hadn't payed $5.00 more for a book that was supposed to be hardcover
This is the first Clancy novel I've read. I've enjoyed some of the movies based on his books.  In this case I was very disappointed at the format of the story.  Most of the time I was reading about specific battles in places I'd never heard of before.  I was hoping for a much more comprehensive overview of the entire war.  You almost never hear about how the war is being perceived outside the men on the front lines.  The wrap up at the end was rather abrupt as well. I think this novel would appeal more to military folks that might be interested in tactics and the specific weapons and vehicles of the counties involved.  As it was, I found myself struggling to get through lengthy battle descriptions that I personally didn't find compelling.
The book was much to much fractionalized.
For a techno/war thriller this effort is often mind numb-ingly slow paced. It could have dropped at least 250-300 pages, and been much better for it. The amount of time spent on the 'Iceland' story, I mean really! Star's for his military knowledge, though.
This book was WAY too focused on military acronyms and machinery and weaponry that I had no idea about.  It took too much time to look up what he was talking about, so I stopped reading it. Could barely make it through 1/3 of the book.  Unless you are very much into military stuff, this is not an average every day readers book (and by the way, I am a HUGE Tom Clancy fan).
I have loved Clancy's books until this one. Not very entertaining and the stofy line is jumbled. Hate to be one to criticize an icon but this book bored me to the poing of quitting it after 558 pages. Not worth thd monsy.
The usual Tom Clancy stuff - lots of info about equipment but the story line is weak and boring. Could not finish it.
it just goes on and on and on......
Boring
The detail about war, strategy etc. was a waste of pages. It was a very slow read. I finally skipped to the last chapter.
I've read and enjoyed many a Clancy thriller.. This was not one of them. Except for the guys on Iceland, there was no real depth to the characters and  the book read like a high school history text.. No intrigue, no plot twists just battle after battle that were hard to follow and keep straight after a while.. and talk about long...The opening of the book was interesting, but  that angle was never advanced and was only used as the pretext for the fighting.. Needed more character involvement and fewer battles..And the ending was just li8ke really, that's it. What happened to the mideast, what about the Russian problem that began the conflict?
I have not yet read the entire book, though I do quite enjoy what I have read, this edition of the novel suffers from some very severe printing errors. Namely, the first 3 chapters or so are out of sync with the rest of the book. The first page of the book is page 16, and there seems to be fragments of a forward and an author's note printed throughout this section. The rest of the book appears okay, though.
I love this book, but it's a far better experience in print than in the Kindle edition.  The book appears to have been transferred to electronic form with OCR and poorly proofread.  Many of the alpha-numeric abbreviations are mangled and throughout the book you find tell-tale errors, like "c" for "e," which leave you looking at nonsense words.  Worst of all, in this case, are the myriad "m" for "rn" errors which turn almost every nautical use of "stern" into "stem," which carries the opposite meaning and is truly confusing.
I read this after my 5th read of Hunt for Red October (I love it)... and I had to go back and check that I was reading a Tom Clancy novel. It reads so differently from HfRO, and not in a good way, in my humble opinion. I have not read any of Clancy's other novels, but can only assume that Bond's co-authorship is what ruined this for me. Be forewarned: if you're looking for something on par with Hunt for Red October--this isn't it.
I love Tom Clancy.  In fact I can safely say that Cardinal for the Kremlin is one of my all time favorite books.  So when I heard that there was a novel out there about WWIII with soviets I jumped right on it.  Big Mistake.  I was expecting a book about major battles and world changing events.  I was expecting to see the world structure change right before my very eyes!  Although this is a great concept, I feel like Mr. Clancy spent too much time on minor things.    ******SPOILER******* I don't care about 3 men stuck on hill 142.  I didn't want to hear about the personal feelings of a submarine captain.  I wanted to read about major world changing battles, and got nothing of the sort.
I was disapppointed in this book. Because of the title I thought it would be a book about running or at least about a runner. The book is a collection of short stories, only the first is about a reform school pupil that runs each morning. The rest of the stories really were not that interesting or all that well written.  Chris Wodke Author: Running for My Life-Winning for CMT
Again book was very similiar to "The Arm and the Darkness".  Pages coming loose, very worn, yellow, etc.  Haven't read this book yet either-just do not like the smell, etc.
The actual book has four stories; the kindle version has just one.  Extremely disappointing.
Too much romance to suit me!  Read Patrick O'Brian instead.  He is much more authentic than is Pope.  I still have the Bolitho series to finish.
Good story, but nautical terms and language hard to follow.
weak
As a retired yacht and small commercial craft captain, and having grown up on Cape Cod, I LOVE sea stories. I just couldn't get into this one at all. I gave it a shot. Probably made it through 25% before saying, "Hey, I'm getting old. I don't have time to waste reading stuff that doesn't grab me." The plot was very slow to develop and the characters were bland and uninteresting. Want a good sea story? Reread Treasure Island!
I guess this would be O K if you liked that kind od material, but, I did not and did not finish!
Although the book was brand new as stated.  It did not have a cd included  or an acess code for the evolve in the book.  Most sellers include these features when its brand new!  The features are needed to see how an assessment is done on a patient!  The videos and excercises in the cd or evolve put the textbook's ideas into action.  Without the supplement of the cd or evolve it makes understanding the concepts more difficult.
Having read Night Without End, Ice Station Zebra and Bear Island, Alistair MacLean seems to have tried something new with Seawitch.  Unfortunately it doesn't work out.  This book breaks from his usual mystery/action/drama formula.  There is no "traitor amongst them" story, no mystery and dull action.  The characters have no depth.  Two fired cops, a billionaire with his two daugthers and a disgruntled oil well fire-fighter.  This doesn't make for a gripping story.  It looks like Alistair MacLean had a bill due so he churned out this snoozer in a week's time.  I really like Alistair MacLean (so far), but Seawitch lacks in so many ways.
If you enjoy naval fiction of quality (CS Forester and Patrick O'Brian for example), you are likely to be very disappointed by these books. Look at the three and two star reviews here for a fair and accurate analysis before you buy.  (If you thought Alexander Kent (who wrote the foreward) was a lightweight in this genre, you may think of him more charitably after reading Pope.)
Can't help feeling that this is one of those ghost written jobs exploiting Tom Clancy's popularity. Not so smoothly written and lacking the emphasis on technical equipment which was the hallmark of the real Clancy and its difficult to believe he would have felt the English term toilet too crude for sensitive US ears used to the somewhat ludicrous restroom!
I ordered a new book and what I got was a book that looks like its been ran over. It was definitely used
Dull dull dull. If you're coming to this book after viewing either the British mini-series or the Americanized version, you're guaranteed to be deeply disappointed. The writing is insipid, the characters equally so. In particular, Francis Urguhart is an annoyingly petty bully instead of the master manipulator depicted on television. I bailed on the book within 50 pages.
Predictable and absurd, it had none of the depth  or rich characterization evident in the television drama. Mattie was especially unlovable and shallow. The last few chapters did not take the time to develop the outcome.
Great book, if now somewhat dated. I don't understand why the narrator felt the need to add a southern accent to some characters.  It ruined the book.
I cant help but compare to the old cast.  I know they are trying and will get better, but for now, 2 stars is all I can give it.  It is lacking a certain deptth and wit that the old cast had.
I never really got into this book.  I read a couple chapters and was confused and not interested enough to keep going an try to figure it out. I never watched the TV show.  If I had that might have made a difference.
I couldn't get into this book. That is ironic because I enjoy the Netflix show.  It wasn't the British factor. I enjoyed that. I think it was reading to get to the action, perhaps. I won't read the rest of the series.
The book, IMHO, was much inferior to the movie. The text was boring, over-done.
I had difficulty concentrating on the text.
Sorry - just couldn't not get into it after first 4-5 Chapters.
One of only a handful of books for which the movie is better but the techinical detailing of submarines  (etc) drags down the pace significantly and causes stagnation.
Sorry, but after Netflix's House of Cards the book lost it shine
The Netflix series is wonderful but did not like the book.
If you've seen the movie 20 times like I have, the book will be disappointing.
Story line not bad, but I expected alot more from the book.  I can tell you that it really dragged in places.  Realizing that there are two more books in the series, I probably will not be reading the additional books.
Did not hold my interest. Bought it because the Netflix series is a favorite, but I couldn't get into this book.
I have come to the conclusion that political dramas are best for me on screen.  Having this original story have a lot to do with a government that I am not as familiar with most likely made this a 2 instead of a 3 and that is not the authors fault at all.  The story was written well, and there were some interesting scenes but I struggled through this book and at times felt it more of a chore to read.
Classic smart beautiful girl looked down upon by her boss, even though she's proven to be smart.  Classic descriptions of everything.  It was too easy to figure the ending.
What started as quite interesting, turned out to be rather mundane.  Quiller, super-brain and second in world-importance only to The Person, fails to foresee what most readers would have guessed from the beginning.  Never once does he suspect that when everything goes ever-so smoothly, something may not be quite as it seems.  When I bought this e-book, I was thinking of "The Quiller Memorandum" which I remembered as very good.  "The Ninth Directive" didn't come close to it, in my mind.
The starting is good but midway it seems to meander away,loosing steam and i still have it partly unread on my kindle. No a thriller like gresam or Forsyth. Informative but just that
an okay read.  Plot was not very exciting nor suspenseful.  Characters were not well developed nor likeable. The TV series was 1000 times better...and I usually prefer a book.
Story not bad but predictable. Translation to Kindle/digital format is absolutely atrocious. There could not have been any proof reading done whatsoever. The OCR process must have done the conversion with no checking whatsoever. Amazon should be refunding the price paid
In this novel, there are no grounds given for Jane Marple's suspicions towards the murderer except the appearance of the backside which is hardly credible.
Despite being the main character, Miss Marple has another one off character do all the real work while she sits on the sidelines and only comes in at the last minute to solve the case. She's a bit more involved than in previous books I've read in the Miss Marple series but is still mostly on the back burner when compared to other main characters. The plot itself isn't bad but there just isn't enough there to keep you interested. The characters are fine but it's just such a typical story that's been done by Christie many times over. There's no real mystery or sense of adventure, It's just a kind of point A to point B mystery that doesn't break the norm.
Pretty disappointing read.....I forget now, what her exact ranking is but I think Agatha Christie is the most published author outside of Shakespeare and the Bible. I like mysteries and was familiar with her name, but had never read her. Recently I read The Girl on The Train and liked it and then say the movie, which unsurprisingly, wasn't nearly as good ad the book. In reading a review of the movie this book was mentioned as a measure of how to spin a yarn in a much more entertaining fashion.....I have to say that I found it almost silly. The plot was worthy of a episode of TV's Murder She Wrote and had no real bite at all. The characters are woefully underdeveloped and the wrap up and reveal at the end was not worth the time spent getting there. I suspect Agatha Christie has better stories she has told, but this one has out me off trying another one for a quite while.
Really enjoyed the movie better than the book.
This was probably cutting edge when first written but is seriously dated. I also found the characters rather wooden and one dimensional. The plot is rather transparent and underdeveloped in terms of character depth and plotting. If you are desperate then this could be read on your summer vacation when you have a need for some form of escapism. Contemporary stuff is far better.
I'm not even sure why I finished this book. I'm sort of glad I did because the climax is slightly exciting, but the rest of the book is positively blah. One positive was getting some of the sentiments of the tensions between the USA and the USSR at the time, since the book was written in 1984.
JEEEZ.  OK, I get it Tom Clancy was an ber nut on details about weapons and undercover stuff.  But do I have to spend so much time reading about it?  Just tell the story (which could have been written in about 25% of the space).  The book also an artifact when the Soviet Union was the Evil Empire.  Hopefully it is not foreseeing the future.
This is the second of my Tom Clancy reads ,the first being Command Authority! The Russions had all the bad luck and the Americans were gungho. The plot was unbelievable and the technology was daunting. Read now, the book painted the world as romantic and neurotic in those days and it is suprising that we didn't have a real nuclear conflict. The books didn't entertain me,didnt inform me and just confirmed that I don't like the genre. .
I was on vacation and read in the paper that Tom Clancy had died.  In the article the author raved about Clancy's first novel, Hunt For Red October. Thus, I downoaded it on kindle to read.  Well it's 2 weeks later, and I've finished 80% of the book and will not go on.  My chief complaint is Clancy does not make it clear--several, several times--who is speaking the dialogue.  I had to constantly re-read to figure it out--if I could.  To fix this, the novel really could have used several re-writes.  To further confuse the reader, Clancy tries to impress with SO many different characters with SO many different military titles, and SO many military technology terms, and with SO many different plot angles going on at the same time mostly leaves the reader scratching their head.  As another reviewer pointed out, there is virtually no character development that would have provided the reader with interest. The characters are flat. Maybe back in the cold war days, the story involving the Americans and Russians would have been more interesting.  To his credit, Clancy must have done a LOT of research to include so much in one book.  As a first novel, it is a valiant effort but in my opinion falls short and would not recommend.
How often can you say the movie is better, but in this case it's very true. The movie is far superior in several ways. In the book the hypothesis that Captain Ramius is defecting is accepted from day one while in the movie Jack Ryan has to prove it himself. The book feels like a never ending series of vignettes in while superlative Americans with their superior intelligence, training and technology aptly foil the stupid Soviets. In the movie the Soviets are the equals of the Americans (on the verge of deploying the innovative Caterpillar Drive). Clancy clearly has no love for communism but his depiction of the Russians as dull mongoloids gets really old.  My opinion is save your time and just stick with the movie.
Tom Clancy has created an exciting and suspenseful tale in The Hunt for Red October.  I like the character of Jack Ryan, an ordinary man who finds himself thrust into extra-ordinary situations.  I was surprised, however, at how much of the story Jack Ryan was not involved in.  I thought he would be at the center of the action all the time, but he was not.  This is only the first of Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan audiobooks, so maybe Jack plays a larger role in the subsequent novels.  I didn't really care for J Charles very much.  He did various voices for the different characters, including ones with Russian, British, and Australian accents, but most of them sounded a bit melodramatic and not entirely convincing.  Overall, I think J Charles reading of "The Hunt for Red October" had flair, but not much emotion.  "The Hunt for Red October" was a good story with good characters, but ultimately the narration ruined it for me.  I think J. Charles might be more suited for animated movies or cartoons rather than audiobooks.
I read several of Clancy's books, and while I enjoyed most of them, this one really bored me to death. The suspense bits are cheap and obvious; the technical raison d'etre for the book lacks relevance (not only because they're dated -- I get that --, but also because the technology has never worked), but most of all, nothing really ever happens. After enduring about 75% of the book I realized I was going back to it simply because I had nothing better to read, so I finally gave up on it. And to think this launched the man's career...
I'm happy to have another copy of this edition put out by the American Bible Society.  The description of this particular book was not quite accurate.  It was said to be a good tight issue; however at the front; first ten pages, were completely loose and very worn !!  Fortunately I was able to do the repair so it is usable.
Bible was old and stained in color
I read the book after the movie and the movie is far, far better. There is too much "fill in" writing for my taste. The fill in is much too complicated for the average reader and to hard to follow and interrupts a flow in the story.
It's hard for me to rate this book. I thought the story was exciting and probably deserves a 5. I thought that reading Clancy's dull, flat, monotonous sentences, which plodded on for more than 600 pages, was torture. I simply could not subject my mind or my spirit to this drudgery. The author does not love language: he has no concern for words, sentences, sentence structure, or variety. I skimmed this book as fast as I could, just for the story. I would have to give the writing a 0. Even though I liked the story, I have never read another Clancy book.
the back came off
I enjoyed the overall plot and Jack Ryan's character; they were the only elements that kept me dedicated to completing the novel. Clancy could have edited 40% of the text out and had a much better story.  This novel is bogged down with irrelevant character descriptions, military acronyms, tedious sub-plots, and background stories that have nothing to contribute to the novel's overall focus.  I found myself constantly frustrated with the monotonous length it took to cover simple plot points. Clancy obviously has a huge audience; however, he needs an effective editor.  This novel is a very slow read.
I was very disappointed when I received this book. I was under the impression that this was a "New" book as it stated. It cost me $69.66 for this book and when I got it, it had a persons name wrote in the inside, plus there was a sticker on the back cover that showed that this book was bought at a Thriftworld store for $.99. Talk about feeling ripped off!
Agatha Christie is a phenomenal crime fiction writer, however I was slightly disappointed with this novel. Miss Marple's aged, feeble detective efforts hardly impress, and the main character does not accomplish much outside of a fantastic pudding and roast.  I would refer readers to other mind-bender classics such as And Then There Were None and Murder on the Orient Express.
Print is too small.
Late Christie and a dithery, fluttering Miss Marple who is only peripherally involved do not make a good combination.  Although she does some surveying and map-reading to discover the house where the body of the woman seen strangled on board a train has been hidden, she does not apply reason to the problem of two murders caused by a tontine will and the identity of the woman (two fairly standard ploys), but experiences a revelatory flash-not, of course, shared with the reader, who has no chance of spotting the culprit.
The premise was great. The storytelling, very awkward. The technological information could have been interesting, but it read like an instruction manual. I give one star for the final cat-and-mouse and another for the funny way Mr. Clancy portrayed the Soviet apparatchiks.
I don't want to trash a really good book, but one aspect of this book is really off the mark.  Tom Clancy's research is legendary so I don't know how this got by him.  Captain Marko Ramius is the Lithuanian-born commanding officer on the Soviet nuclear submarine Red October.  That's the problem right there.  The Soviets would never, ever, ever, ever, ever let a Lithuanian (even a half Lithuanian) be captian of anything....ever.  It never happened, it never would.  So that ruined the beginning of the book for me.
This is not what I ordered.  I am sorely disappointed in what I recieved.  This book that I ordered was supposed to be a gift for my sister.  This did not live up to my expectations.
I wanted the original addition of "Good News for the Modern Man", which was pictured when I ordered it.  The copy sent was not the one pictured, looked like it had been setting out in the sun for years, was all yellow and the pages were brittle.  Cost of the book was not enough to require sending it back.  I still want the original version but will have to re-order from someone else.
This bible is for people that want to take Christianity more lightly. One example is Matthew 4:17. "Then Jesus started preaching, 'Turn back to God! The kingdom of heaven will soon be here.'"  Compare to the King James Version or the Revised Standard Version:  "From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."  Well, this is quite a difference! The original Greek word is "Repent" (metanoeite) &#61472; Is this the same as "Turn back to God!"?  Possibly, some of the Good News according to this version is that you do not have to repent.
My friend (anonymous) recommended that I read this. BORING! She liked all the technical stuff. YEAH!  That's ALL THERE IS!  I also saw the movie version and it wasn't much better. When the sub is sailing into a harbor at night, the background looks SO FAKE!  Read Gorky Park instead -- wicked good russian book.
Not nearly as good as the original book.
Typical Sheldon. Scenes abruptly switch and travel all over the world. Unbelievable plot, silly wrap-up, one-dimensional characters. Despite  flaws, fun page turner. Easy read.
the story is good.  The book was in bad condition.
rediculous plot
Amazing how one could plot for seven years how to get revenge, only to instantly fall back in love with him, like ALL women who set eyes on him, I'll pass on this one.
series has gotten old. nothing great
I read this series of books in my late teens & found them fascinating. Reading them again as an adult in my mid 50's, I find them to be silly & rather boring. We all go through heartbreak at some time in our lives, but we out grow it & go on to live normal healthy lives. There are many abused children in this world who grow up & overcome the damage done to them by the abuse & learn to take responsibility for their own lives.
The book is almost 500 pages and it took about 250 to get to the intersting parts.  The character development is incredible but the whole time you're like "well, when are they gonna be connected?" I previously read "Rage of Angels" by Sheldon and enjoyed that a thousand times more.  I was a disgusted by Larry and especially Noelle. Adultury is a SIN!!!!!!!!  I was disappointed to see Sheldon make it seem like it was no big deal.  Not everyone has affairs and it is not normal.  His book makes you believe it's OK to Sc**w the world. He's a great writer but I don't recommend this one.
Boring start. Didn't finish.
Not nearly as good as the others but a necessary read the ending was a little upsetting but I guess all in all it was the best way to do it
Trying her hand at writing into occultism and supernatural subjects, Agatha Christie failed to provoke new insights nor deliver any entertainment value. Several stories were outrightly occultic, such as the Hound of Death.  These have got nothing to do with crimes. A couple of other stories such as the Blue Jar have some crime involved, and could be considered readable. What mystery and crime readers would normally expect from Agatha Christie was a thorough investigation of the paranormal, sifting the clues and evidence, and exhaust all possibilities before leaving it as ... unexplainable by known facts.  Had Agatha Christie done that, the stories would have been much much more readable.
I seem to recall that my family and I were all reading the first book in the series, and we got our hands on the others that were out at the time and everyone but me lost interest before this point. I just really wanted to know how these people's story ended. I didn't care for the writing style, but I guess the people seemed real enough to me based on how they were created in the first book that I wanted to know what became of them.
Good reference book however, I was slightly disappointed since this edition is quite outdated (2007) hence latest aircraft's on the market do not appear like the Airbus 350 and the Boeing 787 dream liner.
informative book, but the writing is too small and limited comparing to other Jane's books. It should have been printed in two issues, one for military aircraft and one for civil one then there would have been more space for more details. it also did not include aircraft made in Iran and some other countries.
Most of entries old and complete reviewed in the past. Old but still-actual entries deleted from past editions. A lot of new and interesting entries omitted. I do not recommend this book! It's a waste of money!
This is the worst produced book I have ever had. The print is small, and the lines are closely spaced, making reading difficult. Worse, the producers of this edition seem to have taken or made a scan of a better produced version of the book, run the scan through some OCR software, and printed the book up from the resulting text file. (The book is in the public domain in at least several jurisdictions.) I see no evidence that any human was involved in cleaning up the inevitable many errors in the OCR-created text file. As others have pointed out, pages are unnumbered. The table of contents is nearly useless. There is no index. There are no clear chapter breaks. C. S. Lewis occasionally uses Greek letters in his writing (along with translations), but the OCR software seemed incapable of recognizing those characters. Too many passages contain indecipherable gibberish.  For readers who are interested in the topic or in C. S. Lewis, his writing in "Surprised by Joy" could be wonderful. The book is not a full autobiography but is autobiographical. Spending time inside Lewis's mind is quite an experience. The man surely knew how to write. But I'd get a better edition than this one.
I only give this two stars to represent the content itself being very good - otherwise I would give it one. I rarely take the time to review books, as a busy Mom of four, I barely get time to read them much less review them. But I thought customers should know this book is strangely and terribly printed. If there are other reviews saying this then I guess I should have read them. It has missing words, missing or wrong punctuation, numbers in the place of letters sometimes..! What?? I can still make out the story so I will deal with it, but it sure is annoying. I have attached a couple photos so you can play the see-how-many-typos-you-can-find game. Undoubtedly more than in this hurried review. It's like a college paper before any edits, typed in haste and delirious from lack of sleep... Order from another seller and enjoy intriguing autobiographical writing from dear old Jack (Lewis).
I enjoyed the rest of the series, but this book went on and on, tirelessly. The back and forth, over and over....All adults can make the decision of: you constantly can't get along with someone or they constantly treat you poorly, take yourself out of the situation. These people are a glutton for punishment. There were some grammatical errors that I did not notice in the other books, and the writing style change was definitely noticeable. This book was filled with almost 200 pages of the SAME thing.
when i bought this book and it was used, i didn't expect it to be perfect. but it was alot "more used" than i was led to believe by the description. several pages were loose in the middle of the book. while i still enjoyed reading the book, i think next time i would spend the extra few dollars for a new one.
I hated this book. I was so disappointed after I was done reading it. It was very boring and nothing happened. No crazy twist or anything. I had all these ideas on how the story could have came out so I was so excited when I started reading it but it turned out to be a huge waste  of time. I know for a fact V.C. Andrwes(the real one) would have done the story justices.
Everything about the order went great. This book is tedious the read.
I loved the first two books, however, after that she should have stopped. By the time I got to this book I was so unbelievably sick of hearing about how she was guilty about her past and so on. I just wanted to say, 'get over it!' I also found it very depressing, one bad thing happens after another, there is no hope ever! I was so sick of it it gave me a headache. I don't think I will continue to read Gardens of Shadows.
While CS Lewis writing is superb, in this book the story is drawn out. There is too much detail to wade through. I just did not feel that it moved along fast enough and it was not that interesting.
I had a hard time staying awake every time I started reading Surprised by Joy, I was disappointed that this well educated writer flaunted his literary knowledge but never elucidated for those of us who have had little or no exposure to the classics. He described himself as a loner, and I would agree that he even kept his readers at a distance with prose that was too often confusing or had one dimesnsional descriptions of characters that underscored ' this book is all about me'. Unless you love a challenge to your intellect, don't read it. I was surprised I found it held no joy for me..  .
Tedious... not what I expected.
Lewis can be difficult to read under the best conditions. The glaring typos in this kindle volume were a huge distraction. Buy the printed copy.
Surprised by Joy is a magnificent book. This edition is a horrid production. Other reviewers have noted the typographical errors. There's not a few, there's not a lot, there's a ton. No human being can even pretend to have proofread this conversion. I am used to books from Gutenberg where there seem to be fewer typographical errors than in the average printed book. If this is the typical publisher's ebook production, I'll stay with free.
I love this book and at the same time detest this version.  The ridiculous number of spelling errors, strange spacing which turns one word into two, confusing punctuation, seemingly random capitalization, and two words run together as one make this a frustrating read.  There is nothing wrong with Lewis or his writing, only the badly rendered version which detracts from and slows the ability to comprehend him easily.
I was disappointed, frankly. Whatever scanning technology was used to make this digital edition consistently misrepresented certain letter combinations. For example, I puzzled mightily over what "deske" might mean before realizing this should have been transcribed as "desire". Similarly, "live" came out as "five". This might -- perhaps -- be excusable if it happened once. Or if the book was a freebie. Neither of which is the case.
I was very excited to receive "Surprised by Joy" in the mail but my excitement quickly turned to tedium when I started reading it. The first 98% of the book was like taking a graduate course in World Literature.  The book did not begin to deal with C.S.'s conversion to Christianity until the last eight to ten pages. The section dealing with his conversion to Christianity was fascinating but sparse. I wanted to love the book as I love the man but it is dry and far too cumbersome.
this is a pretty good surfing story but that's not saying much. anyone who knows surfing knows the movies and books about it are a joke. kem nunn needs to join a good fiction workshop. get rid of the excessive passive  voice--ike was looking at the ocean becomes ike looked at the ocean-- and  cut down on the description. the first time ike sees the ocean nunn pours  on the description. what hemingway said about the iceberg is true. just  give the reader a whiff of the pacific, and move the story forward. the  reader will sense the ocean and it will be much more effective. instead  nunn writers four pages of description. most of the characters are very  close to being complete cliches. if i hear one more elder surfer trying to  teach a younger surfer of the soul of the ocean, i'm liable to start  singing kumbyya. i barely got through this book. his other book, the dogs  of winter, is better, though still annoying and cliched
Skip this, even though the price is tempting, for it contains too many typos--especially dropped periods. Plus, the endnotes aren't connected to the words they pertain to.
Lewis hints at periods of mental anguish trying to figure out what to believe about the world. There's way too much buildup and the last three pages or so explain him finding God. I would've like more detail about this new joy and less of the many details I found had nothing to do with the supposed object of this book.  It was a long and difficult read, not my style.
I purchased this because I heard it contained the author's own account of how and why he became a Christian.  Since Lewis is widely-known as an author of Christian books, as well as being an Oxford professor, his conversion experience from knowledgeable atheist intellectual to his adoption of Christianity, excited my curiosity.  Unfortunately, this event does not arrive until one has read to the end of the book, and, when it does, provides little in explanation of the internal wrestling that Lewis apparently went through.  So I'm left with the same questions I had before reading.  That is the only reason for my low rating.  Lewis is an erudite writer and the volume does fulfill it's subtitle: "the shape of my early life."  The chapter on "Knock," one of Lewis' early mentors and a classic Anglo eccentric, was the best part of the book for me.
If you desire predictability in a novel, this one is for you. If you like colorless language and a protagonist who is reactive rather than active, by all means check this work out. It is beyond me that this novel was a National Book Award finalist, finding me questioning what happened to that most renowned prize.
but it drags and drags and drags to the point of being unbearable and making us pray for it to end.  The subject had so much going for it. What a waste.
I am not an action novel reader for the most part, but I do like Greene, LeCarre and Barry Eisler. In that vein, a friend recommended this. I couldn't get going because the writing seemed flat and cliched. Might have been a good story, I don't know.
I am 27% through this e-book and am enjoying the subject matter; however, there are numerous typographical error.  I have already identified 13 errors, and those are just the ones that I have started flagging.  There is at least one instance where the word intended is not even discernible - faidty instead of faulty!  Since I have not read this book before, and without a well edited hard copy, for all I know there may be countless other errors typographical and grammatical.  For $8.51 I expect a properly edited e-book, after all, they somehow manage to sell paperbacks for ~7.99 that are edited.  Finally, while this is not the first poorly edited kindle edition I have encountered on Amazon, it is currently the worst.  Skip this and buy a hard copy.
People are claiming this is a well plotted novel, but I don't see how.  The story goes forward only because Preston is so tight lipped that Ike must stay in Huntington Beach to figure things out. This struck me as a bald-faced plotting device -- rather than something believable evolving out of Preston's character.  The ending is fantastically ghoulish, and totally random.  Nothing in the story lays the trail for it.  Again, it didn't evolve naturally out of what came before.  A good story should be a surprise without being a surprise, if that makes any sense.  On the positive side character development is very good, for Ike and Hound especially.
This was billed as surf noir which sounded catchy, but the surf part plays a distant second fiddle to the darker aspects of a crime novel.  An ok read, but wasn't quite what I was expecting.  Also, the idea of a young man that actually built a custom Harley and then left home on the bus rather than on his bike was too much for me.
This is essentially Lewis' autobiography only up to the point of a small time after his conversion to Christ. I really wish he would have talked about his Narnia series at least a little bit and more than just a small paragraph on his friendship with Tolkien. As far as Lewis' story goes I can't really fault him on telling his life story, who can? The events that happened, happened. It seems though that Lewis attempts to be building up in certain areas of a general life lesson he wants to pass on but he doesn't quite seem to get there. Even when dealing with his conversion to Christ, it really only takes up the last three chapters and the book seems to abruptly end; something that I've seen Lewis do in other works. Overall, it's an ok biography but really for only someone who absolutely wants to know about Lewis' life before Christ. Pretty boring and slow paced for me. Overall grade - D+
The item i ordered was said to be in "good" condition, but describing the item i received as "acceptable" would be very generous. The book i received had stained and folded pages with some writing inside. The cover looks like it has taken significant damage over the years as well. Be wary of anything you buy from -Books in the Balance-
I was excited to read this, and ordered Mere Christianity as well. This one arrived first, and I settled in last night to read and was disappointed by the painfully slow pace. Every possible detail is included which makes for a very dull read. I found myself skimming whole chapters to get to the point, which doesn't really arrive until the end chapters.  It does illustrate though how reading and writing styles have changed over the years. This type of writing used to be the standard, when people didn't mind a wandering narrative. I sometimes don't myself if what I'm reading is interesting, but this just didn't engage me.  I'm hoping that Mere Christianity is better.
A disappointment, though not without interest. Lewis's purpose is to tell the story of his conversion from atheism to Christianity. But there is little here to challenge or even interest the open-minded atheist. It seems to me that Lewis converted largely for emotional reasons, apparently because he believed in some kind of Hegelian Absolute. The last two chapters are so vague and poetic (or perhaps poetically motivated...?) as to be very tough to read when trying to find out why he believes and what relevance his conversion might have to me. I never really got clear answers to these questions.  Lewis is always readable, but this was disappointing on intellectual grounds (which is true of all his apologetics).
Intrigue. Sex. Betrayal. Sex. Oh, and sex. Romance? Not so much!
I did not enjoy this book
I wanted to really like this book, but found that the heroine of the story spent too much time "in love" with love and not enough time in love. Usual Small writting, but the history is what actually makes the story better than the story itself of the characters.
I understand that in that time and place that was the way things were,but I just did not care for the story.
sound skips a lot  this c-d is junk a  disgrace  thanks amazon
I started reading this book many, many years ago. It was my first Agatha Christie mystery and my first venture into the genre. The book was extraordinarily well written and quite a page-turner. When I reached the last chapter...I lost the book. I dashed to the store and no more copies were available. For two years, every bookstore I entering brought an inquiry, but the title seemingly vanished. Finally, some Christie controversy surfaced, made headlines and prompted the release of some "lesser titles" on the heels of the publicity. I re-acquired the novel and, since time had past and my recollection had faded, I started again at Chapter 1. I offer no spoilers, but I would have been more satisfied had I never experience the reveal of the last chapter. Some 40 years later, I still cannot talk about Agatha Christie without relating my disappointment at this experience. You have been advised. Note that a second star was added as a acknowledgement of the author's exceptional writing ability...
Not my favorite Agatha Christie. The main character wasn't likeable and the story ran on too long. Altho it is a mystery right to the end, it just wasn't up to her usual standards, I didn't think.
The problem with this book is that Dame Agatha plagiarized herself. She wrote another book with the same ending which IS much better done. And this is also one of the slowest of her books. The build up is long and full of unnecessary detail. I'd recommend the other book by name but that would spoil it for future readers. Let's just say it's a Poirot book and leave it at that. Give this one a miss.
This was the first Agatha Christie where I lost interest and didn't feel compelled to finish, which is saying something! Was very disappointed. It was very dark & creepy - and although I normally enjoy psychological thrillers - this one just seemed to have all the negatives without the positives. Maybe it was the main character / narrator - it was hard to like him and so you started feeling like you didn't really care what happened. I've been on an Agathe Christie binge lately and this one is very different from her "usual" mysteries so perhaps it was just the very different style & tone, which was jarring.
Nothing romantic here... Stolen or sold "heroine" - raped by all husbands...yet loves them all? Very predictable formula writing here.  Couldn't wait to finish it and not because I cared how it ended! Totally unsatisfying for a Small novel.
This was not one of my favorite books by Bert rice small...it was too violent and graphic to the point of disgusting...especially when children were raped and beaten. Would not recommend this to the faint of heart....
Good beginning poor last third. You will want to be buying a new book half way through. A disappointment after Love Wild &Fair.
Love the romance part about the book, but the part of the perversions consist of child rape. The part that I would have loved more time on was killed off real quick.
This book was boring until the last chapter. Did not like it at all.
I'm not sure why this book is categorized as romance because it's really closer to historical fiction.  Categories aside, I really did not enjoy this book.  The hero is extremely unlikable, the heroine is not believable, and I found myself rolling my eyes quite a bit.  It moves along at a good pace, but it's basically an unpleasant gauntlet of every bad thing that can possibly happen to a person does, and sometimes more than once.
OK but unbelievable characters and predictable ending This one wouldn't make me an Agatha Christie fan.
Was ok, but not impressed,
first of all someone recommed me to try a book from this author and i chose to read adora since it was on sale...after reading the book i was left disturded for a while and in shock...a 13yr old is rape by an 60yr old man then suddenly she finds pleasure in him..r u kidding me..to make it short, adora is constantly rape in the book even by the man she loves..sighs..i guess i better go back reading books by johanna lindsey, brenda joyce, judith mcnaught etc...atleast there books leave a smile on your face!!
SPOILERS  I bought this book because it's considered to be one of Christie's 10 Best. But I wasn't far into it before I suspected that it was a reboot of Death on the Nile, only told from the male's viewpoint. By the time I got a third of the way into it, I was sure. I finished it anyway because why not? But it was a lazy effort and not what I would expect from Agatha Christie (the "Bad Seed" element was pretty lame as well).  Why anyone who had read or seen Death on the Nile would be surprised by any of this is a mystery in itself. There was even a bit of Poe's Tell Tale Heart thrown in for good measure.  Okay if one has never read or seen any of the plays/books mashed together to create Endless Night. Otherwise, a pass, and hardly one of her 10 Best.
Of course you would never leave a Christie novel even if it is not entertaining in the middle for you know a surprise waits at the end. Here as well you will be rewarded with a stunning yet quite logical twist at the end, but the question is whether it worths the entire reading ? I personally didn't feel the the mystery properly builds up ever and find the progress a bit slow.
I like happy endings and this one did not have one. It was boring until the 17th chpt. I felt like I was reading an Alfred Hitchcock book.  I figured out most of who the killer was and what was going to happen but the last few pages blew my mind.
Simply too much rape, pillage and betrayal. The story was over the top. Small's The Love Slave which is set in a similar time period is a much more endearing love story.
this wasn't one of Bertrice Small's best book.  I am ok with the idea of a harem.  but I can't get used to the fact that Adora was the wife of the sultan and yet she is in love with the son.
This was a substandard piece of work by Agatha Christie. The plot is boring. The main character unsympathetic. I didn't like it.
Having read a great deal of Agatha Christie,  this has to be my least favorite so far.  It is a very "psychological" novel.  I thought it was slow and uninteresting, and I did no feel the ending was well done.  I had to really drag myself through this.
The book starts really slow and gets slower. I realy like Agatha Christie but this was at the end of her life So She just wasn't up to snuff.
You need to know that this audio book is ABRIDGED.  While it's entertaining and well read, this version has only 3 short CDs, each one only about 45 minutes long.  The unabridged version read by Hugh Fraser is a far better value.
This book looks interesting, but I 'd rather say I was dissappointed, having read almost all Christie's books.  Get it only if you plan to collect every Agatha book. If you are a newbie in the Christie world or you want only the tops, this isn't for you.
This first part of a 10 novel epic is in many ways the most problematic. Donaldson's verbose prose can at times drag with endless descriptive text slowing the development of some of the most genuinely inventive world building ever crafted. For those who struggle with this, I urge you to persevere as the tale that unfolds is well worth your patience. The biggest problem, which will haunt the entire series, is that the actions of the lead character in the early chapters are utterly irredeemable. I'm a sucker for a tale of redemption and have cheered on all manner of scoundrels and ne'er do wells who seek to right the wrongs they have done. What I can't get past is that Covenant is a rapist and the other, more likeable characters, don't seem to have a problem with that. This is a remarkable tale with some of the finest scenes in modern fantasy. I only wish that one action hadn't soured my perspective so completely.
This book - this Series - is unremittingly frustrating. The main character is consistently unlikeable, and does horrible disgusting things. All the nice characters die unpleasantly. The author is oh SO verbose! Too much description! More than half of each book is an endless unnecessary description. It drove me crazy. I read on because the story is clever. It can be compelling. I wanted there to be a pivotal moment where it all came together and the main character would be improved. Nope. I am sure not going to read any other books by this author! He clearly hates women and has a mean side.
Simply bad. I liked it when i was 16 but with age this novel did not get better. Imagery was good. Started skipping scenes in the first ten pages to get to the good stuff. There is no good stuff.
This trilogy had such potential, but, Donaldson's writing style actually made reading a chore. I found Thomas to be needy and wanting for a slap to get over himself. I found the series moved at a snails pace. I couldn't bear to read the third book in the first series, I gave the 6 books away, they were THAT bad. There's stuff out a lot more entertaining to read. Don't waste your time.
Had high hopes for this after hearing about it from a colleague, but was sorely disappointed. The story itself was middling and the writing style was just infuriating. We get it - he's a leper and it's damaged him emotionally. Say it a few times in a few different ways and then move on! I read it to the end just to see if the story climax would make up for the unnecessarily winding road it took to get there and it just wasn't. Evil seeks power and corrupts itself beyond repair in the course of trying to control a power that's just too powerful. Not impressed.
After being captivated by the protagonist in the first chapters, it was downhill from there. The story progression is slow, and the protagonist never seems to stop feeling sorry for himself.
I was forcing myself to read this book - Momma didn't raise no quitter.  I can normally breeze through a book of this size in a couple days. It literally took me months to read this. I just had to force it on myself. I just didn't believe the main character at all.
Not terrible. Entertaining when I wasn't lulled into sleep by the overly extravagant vocabulary. Just not a book for me to read and escape.
This could have been an interesting story, but I didn't enjoy reading it. The main character was unlikable and many conversations in the book were nonsensical to me.
Some things get better with age...not this. The story is good but...
I first read this series back in my late 20s while staying at a friend's home. I remember liking the series so, 20 years later, I made the effort to buy it. I just read the first trilogy and am about to start the second. I can't recommend this series. I mean it has some intriguing things in it. The anti-hero being the major one. But the anti-hero is so incredibly unlikable (the point I'm sure), that it makes reading the books difficult. The disease being another, but I wish there had been more about it. It seemed to me as though the disease deadened the protagonist altogether. If the main character's journey is psychological, he thinks way too much and too little of himself. No gray in this book. And the writing style, for lack of a better word, is overwrought. How many times can you use 'febrile' and 'ination' (is that even a word?) anyway? The author plundered the thesaurus of any and all words relating to 'despite' and 'foul', and then went even darker. It gets quite tiring after a while, believe me. And I love a good $10 word... but holy jeez! And if you are a woman thinking of reading this series, trigger warnings!
I first read this series back in my late 20s while staying at a friend's home. I remember liking the series so, 20 years later, I made the effort to buy it. I just read the first trilogy and am about to start the second. I can't recommend this series. I mean it has some intriguing things in it. The anti-hero being the major one. But the anti-hero is so incredibly unlikable (the point I'm sure), that it makes reading the books difficult. The disease being another, but I wish there had been more about it. It seemed to me as though the disease deadened the protagonist altogether. If the main character's journey is psychological, he thinks way too much and too little of himself. No gray in this book. And the writing style, for lack of a better word, is overwrought. How many times can you use 'febrile' and 'ination' (is that even a word?) anyway? The author plundered the thesaurus of any and all words relating to 'despite' and 'foul', and then went even darker. It gets quite tiring after a while, believe me. And I love a good $10 word... but holy jeez! And if you are a woman thinking of reading this series, trigger warnings!
Reading this third installment and love it.  My two starts is directed for the poor quality a supposed, very good book.  I have discussed this with Amazon directly and very pleased with their handling of this.  Well not reorder from secondary seller who sold this to me.
I didn't really like the book. I read it on a friend's recommendation who loved it though. I found the main character to be rather pathetic and dreary. The story itself was interesting, and the universe was neat - but overall I found it very difficult to complete. I won't be reading the 2nd or third in the series.
It was alright, hopefully the rest of the series builds on it, but it felt very thin to me. Not much going on and no real incentive to continue with the next book.
Slow. Without much happening
No romantic interest in the entire book. Thomas was so depressing I his suicide would have been a plus. Sorry.
After reading some good reviews and recommendations, I gave it a try. The experiment failed. I just don't see what is there to like in this book.
not the best of her work
This is the Blackstone Audio version from 2005. The narrator is Geoffrey Howard.  There is a newer audio version released in 2014 by Harper Audio. The narrator of the newer release, Julian Rhind-Tutt, does a far superior job in my opinion. Be advised; if you order the Kindle Harper-Collins E-book and add audible narration, you will automatically be sent this inferior audio version instead of the Harper Audio release. You can still get the Harper Audible edition for a reduced price if you purchase the Kindle edition, but you will need to make two separate purchases. First buy the Kindle E-book and then buy the 'Harper Audio' Audible book. Audible will offer it at a discount for already owning the Kindle version.
Disappointed.  Book was in excellent condition, promptly shipped and properly packaged.  However it was NOT the edition pictured in the ad, which means I did NOT get the version of ths book that I was seeking.  (I collect cover variations for this book.)  Off it goes to the library, and my hunt continues.  BADLY disappointed.
I don't often stop reading books, but I had to abandon this series.  The names he gave things were so over the top bad.  Everything was like it was made up by a teenager with an overheated imagination... Hearthseeker,  Stotebinder, Firebearer...  Just could not get past the schmaltz.  Main character also was un-likable, I kind of wanted him dead sooner rather than later.  Some decent settings and ideas but overall- bleh.
The books pages were very brown, and the cover was bent several ways, giving the appearance that the book was not in good condition as was initially advertised.
Just couldn't get into this story. The main character was too psychotic for me.
Didn't care for the series.
A very dry, very rote set of arguments.  This is C.S. Lewis at his worst. Two stars because if you haven't heard these arguments before, you might be persuaded.
Bought this book (and the other two books of this trilogy) back in the early 80's. Started to read it back then, but never got into it. Well, I finally finished this book and I have to say, I won't be reading the other two.  Donaldson tries too hard to give the reader that Tolkeinesque feeling and ends up using the phrase "as if" so many countless times that it becomes irritating and laughable at the same time. With any good novel, you become emotionally invested, and it didn't happen for me in this case. 2011
I'm sure back when this one came out it was fun but these days it seems a bit old-school and cliche.
