It was good and an interesting creation of a poem, I kept reading because I wanted to know who did it, and exactly how things were going to happen
No where in the discription did it say that it was a bilingual book. Luckily there was the original English written along with the Japanese. I didn't mind the other language. I just wish it had be clearly marked on the description page so I would know what I was purchasing.
the cd of the story is still going strong, unfortunately the paperback book did not last as it was not as high of quality and easily tore in the hands of my toddler
I love the movie Clue, and if you love the movie Clue, it is like a very un-funny version, so be warned.  The cover of this book bothered me because it is pretty much the opposite of the house described in the book.  The original title of this book was "Ten Little Indians", which I'm assuming was changed because of the cultural insensitivity.  It makes me wonder what was changed about the book other than replacing "Indians" with "Soldiers".
We all know Christie writes mysteries and this one was no exception.  I enjoyed the book but felt a little disappointed by the ending.  There are so many characters that I was never quite sure who was who- I found myself thinking this person was a different person and it wasn't.  I know that does not make any sense but that's kind of how I felt.  I like the story and would have loved to see the Castle or Hotel- whichever it was. I think you will enjoy it if you like mysteries.... you can decide for yourself about the ending......
My Sons Really enjoy it They want to hear the story every night, even as they get older they still listen
Love all the Dr Suess books for our baby and i think we have just about all of them now.
Received this great book, that is a classic. I obviously did not read the description very well, as I thought this was a standard size book. Instead it is a smaller, cardboard book. It was a baby gift but instead my 18 month old is getting it for Christmas.
This is a great book to read to toddlers.  Fox in Socks is a masterpiece of linguistic fun.  However, this printing is not the whole book.  The storyline conflict between Knox and the Fox has been removed, as have many other small pieces, e.g. "If sir, you sir, choose to chew sir, with the goo goose, chew sir, do sir!"  (I read the full version to my older children a lot!)  Having said that, the pages are cardboard, so toddlers can't accidentally rip them, and there won't be any toddler concern about why Knox is mad at the Fox.  So, for toddlers, pick this up now, and get the "full" version when they're a bit older.
We love the Fox in Socks book, it is a wonderful rhyme and just flows so well.  This book is abridged, like all the tiny hardcover ones, but maybe because we were so used to the original full length book, this one just didn't flow for us with all of its deletions.  Needless to say, it still has fun rhymes on the pages and the kids do like to read it.  It just isn't quite the original.
I realized today that the most beautiful aspect of the books Dr. Seuss wrote is all about reading them ALOUD.  They are not meant to be silent.  On the same note, they are also meant to be shared among the young and adult.  I find myself at a responsibility now to share and talk about them.  Plus, with every Dr. Seuss story, I am realizing, there must also be a special story to share.  Here is my first. Come and check out more of this review here. [...]
This is a twister. It's fun to read. It is another classic we can all enjoy! The only thing I really don't completely love is that I feel completely tied after reading.
We are 4th and 5th graders and we enjoy reading Fox and Socks. This book has very good rhyming. People of  all ages should read this book because it is a fun challenge for your tongue. We love how Dr. Suess put his imagination into this book and how he carefully placed his love into each and every word. We think that fox wanted to teach Knox to not to give up on himself and insisting that Knox can do it. It's a very good book but we want to complaint how at first it was easy but the words started getting difficult because if Dr. Suess wants children to read it the children might not know hard words that Dr.suess makes up.  I would recommend this book for parents, teachers and children because you can read this book at any time. But remember, that this is a tricky tongue twister book so you might want to take it slow.
When I first bought this book, I thought it was just another Seuss book, but it is not! At first I hated it and would try to persuade my son into making Daddy read it instead of Mommy, but many nights we would both end up reading it. After having done it so much, it's a breeze now, but it does take some getting used to!
I've always been a big fan of Dr Seus, so I was very happy to be able to find one of his books at such a reasonable price.
This is a clever book full of tongue twisters, which can be enjoyed as an easy reader or as a read-aloud.  The fox plies his friend Mr. Knox with tongue twisters (each accompanied by a funny illustrated scene) and Knox refuses to try them, but in the end Mr. Knox bests the fox at his own game.  Children will enjoy playing with these silly words and silly scenes, all of which are defined by the easy reader's limited vocabulary.  It's lots of fun, and this kind of wordplay may help open the mind to an appreciation of true poetry.
We have a (growing) collection of Dr. Seuss books for our 18-month-olds, and I can find something unique and educational in every one of them, this one included.  I do think that, for children just learning language, the alliteration may be a bit of a negative - while they are working hard to understand and say individual words for different objects, the rhymes in this book make everything sound the same.  I know this will be a hit for the kids when they are a bit older and have a more solid command of the vocabulary, but I find it not to be the MOST appropriate for my very young toddlers.
This book is nothing more than a list of tongue twisters.  Each set of tongue twisters gets progressively harder and harder (not to mention more and more disastrous in the illustrations) until Mr. Knox throws his hands up in frustration, and it all starts over again.  Definitely read it before you read it aloud! I'd also recommend this book for the late stage of early readers - the words are just simple enough for them to actually be able to read them, while the wordplay is tricky enough to make it a really fun challenge.  There are a few minor concerns. First of all, the fox really is a nasty character, and uses language that I know some parents object to - calling Mr. Knox dumb, that sort of thing. And of course it shows some violence in the tweedle beetle battle.  This sort of thing doesn't concern me, but if it does concern you, as always, read before you buy.
This is a GREAT tongue-twister book for children still learning to read.  Here's an example of what you will find.  New socks. Two socks. Whose socks? Sue's socks.  As with most Seuss books the words the sentences start out simple and then get more complicated so that children can sort of 'warm up' to the reading.  Here's a sample from later on.  Through three cheese trees three free fleas flew. While these fleas flew, freezy breeze blew. Freezy breeze made these three trees freeze. Freezy trees made these tree's cheese freeze. That's what made these three free fleas sneeze.  (My tongue actually got tired--LOL!)  The Accelerated Reading (AR) designation for this book is 2.1 which means that it is essentially a book for beginning Second Graders.  [It's fun for a whole range of readers though.]  Four Stars [B+] :::  Written at the 2nd Grade level, this Dr. Seuss book is great fun for anyone interested in tongue twisters.
When we first bought this book for my then two-year old daughter, I could barely get through it the first time.  I didn't much like it.  That's probably because I was so busy trying to say the words it, I couldn't pay attention to what was actually happening.  Since then, the book has grown on me, and my now three-year old daughter loves it, as well.  After reading the book aloud a gazillion times, I can now say it almost without getting my tongue twisted, and my favorite part is the ending, where Knox finally gets his "revenge" for what Fox has put him through.  One minor complaint:  Seuss uses the word "dumb," a word I would prefer to keep out of my daughter's vocabulary, and it could easily have been replaced with "glum," a change I try to institute when I read the book.
Our son always cracks up when we read this book together - he has taken to memorizing some of the funnier lines, and says them faster than I can read them!  I even took this book to my son's pre-school to read to his class - they loved it.  Can't go wrong.
I grew up with Dr Suess books so I couldn't wait to share them with my own children.  The books are illustrated simply, the text is easy to read and creatively laid out and the silly rhymes make me and my children laugh. What I've noticed from reading them Dr Suess books (they are 1 and 2.5 years) that it has really helped my 2.5 year old with increasing her vocabularly, saying words properly and recognising sounds that a letter or group of letters make.  A wonderful series of books to read aloud to your children.
This is a great cookbook, only objection is the physical size; to large to fit on my cookbook shelf.
Great book
Had this book in the past and really missed it , easy to read , large photo's and great tasting recipes
This cookbook is really huge in dimensions, it wouldn't stand upright in a regular book shelf, it's length is really long.  The pictures in the book is gorgeous, good definitions of ingredients and easy to follow.  I haven't had the opportunity to try the recipes.
Haven't tried any of the numerous recipes, but the book is indeed beautiful. Got it because other reviewers mentioned that the recipes were relatively authentic. I'm optimistically expecting to find most or all of the ingredients (tamarind leaves?!) here in the San Francisco bay area.
This is a beautiful book, with gorgeous pictures of the landscape, culture, and recipes for each region.  The recipes are authentic and delicious. On the down side, the size of the hardbound book is a too large for my cookbook shelf, and some of the ingredients are difficult to find where I live (rural).
After owning this book for a while I wanted to provide an update.  LOVE this book!  It has become one of my favorites and my family makes requests all the time.  My new sister-in-law is Thai and her parents came for a visit, they speak almost no English. I made a couple of the dishes from the book and they were a bit nervious but appeared shocked when they tasted the food.  Said that it was VERY authentic and they wouldn't have believed I made it from scratch if they hadn't seen it. Very inspiring book and if you have an Asian market nearby you are in for a real treat.  =============== This book is beautiful, the photos are pleasing and I like the fact they give you the Thai name as well as the English translation.  The recipes are not too complicated and after trying out a number of them they are incredibly favorful and simiple to make.
This isn't my favorite Thai cookbook for recipes. There are several good recipes, and many that are not terribly authentic. But, if you love a cookbook with outstanding pictures, this is a wonderful book. There are so many terrific pictures of places I visited in Thailand, I had to get the book.
The recipes in this wonderfully illustrated book will give the reader a delicious taste of Thailand. It will not, however, give a 100% authentic taste of it. That may be good news to people who don't live near an Asian grocery where hard to find items necessary for authentic Thai cooking are to be found. Some of the recipes also save the reader time at the expense of authenticity. But unless you are obsessed with making something that tastes exactly as it does in Thailand, the recipes are close enough. This is one of the few books that break all recipes down by region, and that is important. I lived in Thailand for 3 years, with my in-laws for 1 year, and during that time I picked out tell-tale signs of authenticity. I've concluded that the most authentic Thai cookbook is "Thai Food" by Thompson (can't remember his first name.)   In sum, lovely pictures, delicious recipes, authentic enough but not absolutely authentic.
I was expecting something a little more substantial, but it was a good book, It was a very fast read.
I think the book was good but there were so many plot lines that never really end. The main stories good but when you read the PS you find out its really about justine when sara is the main chacter I think the book end in an off key but it was great to see what happened next
The only reasons I didn't give this book 5 stars is because sometimes the author tried too hard to use slang and teenage stereotypes. I'm sure she meant for it to add to the plot or characters but it almost seemed as if she didn't remember what being an teenage girl felt like. Other than that, I loved this book!
Some questions answered. Kids are growing up.
good book, very interesting. I had to re-read it because I got alittle lost but that might have been because of my one year old!
This isn't the type of book that leaves you with a happy feeling at the end of it.  Despite that, I still enjoyed this book.  Sara's journey throught this book is definitely trying and kept my interest.  I definitely reccomend it.
Saga continues...seemed to slow down a bit, but still a good read and excellent series.  Worth the time to read.
Great story. I have read all of the Poldark books up to this one and I really enjoy them. I particularly enjoy the continuity of life as it goes on.
Interesting continuing saga of Poldark beyond the TV Series 3 so far...
I enjoyed this novel. There were no 'pat' situations, the relationships were realistic and trite resolutions were avoided. There is a lot of background - the historical situation, the politics in Cornwall, England and the Continent, the mining scene, the country life, the county life  and the London life, all made the novel rich..
This is the 8th Poldark novel, and I'm hooked!  Author creates suspense by depicting stranger ambivalently--handsome, vigorous, but unpredictable.  Can he be trusted?  Is he worthy of our heroine's love?  Or is he perhaps a shady 2-timer?
New interesting characters and most of the awesome old ones. I only took 1 star away because it's missing Elizabeth and there's not much on Verity. No longer the old jealousies. It seems like it's setting up the next book.
This book dwelled more on the war efforts than I liked. The new stranger from the sea was introduced but not fully explained. Hopefully the next book will bring back Graham's engaging style.
Really enjoy these books.  Hate to reach the final :(
I missed the characters from the first seven novels but the development of the characters of the Poldark children was satisfying.
I really enjoyed the whole series and miss the Poldark family and their friends.
I'm enjoying all the Poldark series books. The characters are so well developed. New locations and activities for the characters make for challenges, expectations, disappointment, and surprises for the reader.
I really didn't think Winston Graham could top the ups and downs of Ross and Demelza's relationship.  But I'm finding the development of Jeremy and Clowance very addictive. I also like that although Ross and Demelza have settled down, their relationship is more playful.  They are like the cool parents on the block. Can't wait to see what happens with that Carrington fella..he looks like trouble!
Great reading except through the military parts- admittedly it is a skill to blend civilian life and military battles... and this is not the place for it. The authors' ideas did not translate well. The personal stories in the Cornish land were great overall. Lot's of just desserts!
This was an interesting story, but at times seemed to be written by a different person than the previous books.  The characters were not as well developed as before.
Flowed well from previous book.
Old animosities have taken a back seat, simply due to avoidance of the major irritations. Times are changing and innovations are bringing progress, but class standards still exist. Will the next generation flounder or flourish?
A great series
I love the Poldark books, but I could have had a little less description of the mining machinery and the steam engines. It went on way to long for my taste.
The Stranger from the Sea is the eighth book in the twelve volume series on the life of Captain Ross Poldark. The series is set in late eighteenth and early nineteenth Cornwall during the Napoleonic era. In this book we learn that Ross has been in Portugal fighting with the Duke of Wellington's army against the forces of Revolutionary France. Back home in Cornwall we see George Warleggan the widower courting a young aristocrat. The younger Polkdark children Clowance and Jeremy are courting. Ross and Demelza are in middle age but they are still very much in love as they see their family grow. The new character Stephen Carrington provides adventures on the sea with his smuggling endeavors. He is a young romantic Byronic figure.   The Poldark volumes are fascinating glimpses into life in Great Britain during the Napoleonic era and provide a wide cast of characters who are complex human beiungs. Winston Graham is a fine writer. Once you read the first book in this excellent series you will be hooked!
Not one of the best in the Poldark series
I enjoyed this book in the series although the title is a bit misleading!  The stranger is introduced and not much else about him is mentioned.  The book itself was a good storyline for Jeremy (finally Jeremy is dealt with in detail!) .  A good, quick read.
A great historical novel series!
Follows the series and is good detail on England at the end of 18th Century and beginning of 19th century
I like the series
Like 10 years passes and the children are grown up. Jeremy is a young man having issues with Ross, Clowence is strong willed and infatuated by Stephen Carrington, the stranger from the sea. It was not my favorite book in the series. And the reason for it was Stephen Carrington who I truly did not like. I did not want him to be with Clowence. Overall, it is another book in the series of really cool characters and being with Ross and Demelza is always nice.
I am still enjoying the series. The series has not diverged to far from the original families
I have enjoyed this whole series.  Character development and descriptions of this coastal area in England is wonderful.  I recommend for those who enjoy this period in history.
Not quite as gripping as the earlier books I'm still finding the Poldarks fascinating.  It will be interesting to see how the children fare
I am love love loving this series! Historical fiction at its finest. Wonderful writing, engaging characters, compelling story. I give the series a solid A.
Boring in some places.  ALl-IN-ALL THE SERIES HAS BEEN VERY ENJOYABLE.
This book sets up the next one which has more suspenseful plot lines.
All the Poldark series is great reading.
I liked this book.  I like all Winston Graham's books.  He really developments his characters and the Cornwell becomes a character as well.
This book started out well enough with the stranded sailors facing an unknown and terrifying creature. As the story drifted from an unknown creature to supernatural being I lost some interest, but I'm sure a lot of people would actually find a supernatural antagonist more interesting than a natural one. That being said, most of the story concerning the crew's experiences while trapped in the ice was entertaining. The endless flashbacks seemed like filler for a book that was thick enough as it was, and part of the ending was simply too bizarre. This was a pretty good book that could have been a great book if the author had dropped a few hundred pages and come up with a better ending.
Good product, exactly as advertised.
Very good continue  story
Quick shipping and book as described!
I really liked reading this book but one of the main story lines, that John Rae discovered the final link of the Northwest Passage, falls a bit short with a little research.  The author argues that Robert McClure's route was not navigable by ship for years after discovery because it was covered by ice year round but never mentions the fact that Rae's route has never to this day been navigated by a ship with a draft (drought) of greater then 5 meters.  That means even if Franklin had know about Rae Strait back in 1845, he likely couldn't have made it through since one of his ships, the 'Terror', had a draft of 6.86 meters.
From the title I had hoped that this book would have pictures of cairns and lobsticks.  I did not, but the collection of brief biographies was good.
Decent amount of knowledge. Really have to learn the stuff in here though. Kind of big so not ideal of backpacking
Definitely a good read for any camp enthusiast.
I would give this a 5 star review but the book was shipped with another one in a plastic bag taped instead of a box. It was also shipped internationally which included import fees etc so this package should have been shipped in a box like your Canadian counterpart does.  Outside of that- I absolutely love the book! I'm not quite finished it yet but I've read multiple books like it and this one is very well done with some information you don't get from others in the same genre/ category. 5 star if it was shipped properly.
Good informative book but the binding is junk. Ive been very careful with this book and have only read about 10 pages on knot making....spine split on me, junk junk binding. Should make a book on how to make books that survive delicate reading.
a lot of good info but was hoping it was small enough for bug-out bag but is big and heavy
Small pocket version. Good book to start with.
really good info. my favorite part is that it fits perfectly in the ammo can i keep my survival gear in
I liked it and thought it had useful insights for the beginner, and some things for the experienced as well.
Very detailed, good images and lots of valid info!  Not something that is portible in a BOB sense, but great to have for bug ins!
Interesting book, but it takes a long time to learn and memorize any of these skills. But its a great take and read to get your head into logic, skills and the mindset of the other warriors in our societies. But a warning, its a very thick and dense book for its size, kind of scary.
Very informative. Great book to have for any and all survival situations. Covers everything. Could be a little smaller, other than that it's perfect.
I was looking forward to more of Tal. Now we have a whole book dedicated to his enemy Kaspar? I didn't care for that. Shouldn't a trilogy sort of follow the same people. If the author wishes to add a book with another perspective, maybe add an additional one and call it Book 2b or something.  It was okay as far as the book itself goes, I just couldn't get over the Kaspar point of view. It did further the story and the ending wasn't what one would expect either. It sort of leaves you hanging in several spots that I understand will be dealt with in a subsequent series.  Feist is always enjoyable, even this book.
We are taken back to the continent of Noviandus (sp?), homeland to the Serpent War saga books, the place of Kaspar's exile after being defeated by Talwin Hawkins in the last book. As part of the series, this veers off to take a look at life through Kaspar the bad guy rather than following the exploits of the hero. Kaspar is unawares that he is on a self-redemption excursion in his attempt to return to Olasko. We meet a few new characters but more importantly, we learn about the Talnoy and the Dasati. By the end of the book, past characters are present and there's a cameo by Tomas from the Riftwar Saga. It's a good adventure and redemption story but fairly typical as those stories go.  While I enjoyed "Exile's Return", this book doesn't complete the Conclave of Shadows. Rather, like "The King's Buccaneer" was to the Serpentwar Saga, "Exile's Return" is a transitional book to the upcoming Darkwar Saga which is hinted at in this book as making the Riftwar look like a playground fight. The ending scene is a cliffhanger of things to come and you can easily visualize what they are seeing. Overall, good book but can't stand alone and is a setup for the upcoming Saga.
Good book to have in every house. Boring to read, but life saving and life changing, period!
Enjoyed the book and would read this author again.
Excellent book!!
the third in the series where the former duke. Was transported to the other side of his world. To put it simple he was exiled from his kingdom, country, his continent. To a land that was similar, but different. He had no known way of returning to his kingdom. He had no weapons or supplies. He was simply exiled their. The person who transported him there simple disappeared back  to where they started. Believing that the alien continent would killed him. But the former duke. Was not without skills. Skills that helped him go find some kind of civilization this strange continent. He force himself go on. Because of his skills he found help. And learned enough of the local language and culture to find a way back to his home. The longer he was away. From the evil wizard control. The clear his mind. And thought why he want war another country. He found it was possible he was being control. Soon he found away to return to his former kingdom. But fates choose a different way for the former duke.
One of Raymond Feist's strengths is the development of his characters and that is what I like most about this series and this book in particular.  The story line is entertaining but it is the characters you meet and how life changes them that I find most enjoyable.
Love it, love it, love it - I would recommend it to any scifi lover.  Raymond E. Fiest never disappoints.
good book but a bit pricey. I am very happy with my purchase. I would recommend this product to anyone.
This book (for me) was one of the most frustrating reads of all Raymond Feist's books.  Having grown to hate the character Kasper in the previous two books and looking forward to his untimely death I found myself being forced to endure a whole novel about him.  On saying that as the book progressed Kasper finds himself being sucked into circumstances that are bigger than he (and the reader) could imagine.  Definitely a transitional book for the next series (Darkwar Saga) and one that can not be read on it's own, it just wouldn't make sense.  Leaving the reader with a bit of a cliff hanger at the end, I for one will be purchasing the next in the series.
This is the bible for survival.  The book is nice but I thought I was getting the smaller more compact version.  I'm keeping it anyhow.
Very good information but a few illustrations were not accurate
one of his better books.  The return of the former duke of olsako and his redemption - a must have for any fan of feist.
I actually liked this book quite a bit more than I thought I would... at first it was hard to swallow Kaspar's redemption but it worked out after all.  It's a worthy addition to the beloved and cherished books of Midkemia and a must-read for any fan of Feist's books.  After all, the book explores a very basic and important humanist question: can someone who has embraced and reveled in the basest and cruelest aspects of human nature be redeemed and truly become opposite to what he/she was?  Is redemption through action possible?  The posing of these questions is one reason why we read fantasy fiction.  Fantasy and SciFi are the last bastions of the BIG IDEA and of the unabashed trumpeting of the idea of basic and fundamental moral virtue.  Contemporary literature (of the academically sanctioned kind) avoids this like the plague for the most part and yet it's what so many of us yearn for.  Feist gives it to us in what some might say is a formulaic way (contrasted to the more layered complexities of fantasy writers such as Guy Gavriel Kay in his exquisite fantasy alt-history books) but I think there is still much depth here and I wish more people would drop their prejudice against the genre and read these works.
The third book in the Conclave of Shadows trilogy begins immediately after the ending of King of Foxes, but instead of following Talon as we did in the first two novels, we switch to (former) Duke Kaspar.  Kaspar was under the sway of evil magician Leso Varen for the past few years, it turns out, so instead of killing him outright, the Conclave banished him to Novindus, a war-ravaged continent half a world away from his former homeland.  His goal at first is to get back and seek revenge against those who wronged him (at least, that is the version of events he tells himself), but he quickly gets drawn into events that tie into the greater fight of good vs. evil.  This is another fast-paced adventure and it contains information that kicks the larger story back into high gear.
I like it alot. More than I actually expected to
Very enjoyable and easy to follow
While the series lacks some of the depth of the original series set in Krondor, it carries Feist's distinctive writing flavor.  It continues the series spanning saga, the never ending battle between good and evil, and revisits some of our favorite characters from the original (Pug, Thomas) etc.  Reading this book jogged my interest in the Feist saga enough to prompt me purchasing the 2nd in the saga (which I had missed), and the trilogy that would immediately follow this book in the over all timeline.  If you like Feist, I'd recommend it.
I love the Midkemia books, and always look forward to reading more stories by Raymond Feist.  I didn't enjoy this trilogy as much as many of his others though.  I don't know if it's because the storyline seemed a bit stale, or maybe I just needed to take a break from the series for a while.  It was nice to have the continuation of the story of Midkemia though, and I wouldn't want the stories to stop... keep 'em coming!
A very fine finish to the Conclave of Shadows series.  I look forward to the next series by Mr. Feist
mostly practical but good to have
Good information
This is a good book to have on hand, especially for beginners. It covers all the basics that you would need for many situations. With the crazy times we live in everyone should own a book like this and give it a good read through. The only thing that's really going to keep you safe and healthy is knowledge. The police & government can be everywhere at all times. Sometimes you need to take care of yourself and this book will give you a good foundation to build off of. The amount of useful information far exceeds for few dollars the book costs. If you have a family it's even more of a reason to get this book and familiarize yourself with it. And it's smart to have the actual book, considering the digital version won't help when the powers out.
The book certainly held my interest, even if I did find the involved politics and maneuvering, both domestic and international, to be almost hard to follow. Did all that stuff really happen? - I need to take a course in early 19th century politics and governance!
It's a tad small but that makes it good for a bug out bag etc. you want to put it in a ziploc bag of sorts to keep it from getting damaged. Mine got rained on a couple days after I got it and it still works but all the pages are deformed. The waxy like pages on this book hold up better than just regular paper ones.
Had to return it because I wanted the mini copy that fits in a pocket. I was sent a regular paperback size. Content is great so I am still looking for the mini size of this book.
An interesting read...some parts a bit 'stretched' and a bit predictable, but enjoyed the political history and writing style.
Rather depressing. The heroine had nothing to redeem her.
I enjoyed the book and would definitely recommend it to anyone.
Overall, looks to be a good guide. I was just a little disappointed with the small size.
I chose this book because ai like the author's writing.  I have recommended if to many of my good friends.
excellent book recommended
Edge Of Danger.  The book was in good condition.  The story was excellant.  Recommended to anybody that likes Jack Higgins and Shawn Dillon stories.
Shows a bunch of situations and shows you how to survive in them. Really cool
Very useful reference book.
I've read a number of the reviews, and thought they were too hard. This is escapism - nothing more, and nothing less. The dialogue is trite and cliche, and the plot formulaic. But that is what makes Higgins so good. Its fun! And sure you have to suspend disbelief occassionally to make the plot work - but what's the harm with that? I enjoyed this book. It returns Higgins back to form after a number of less successful books in recent years. Even inspite of the cliches and plot formulas, there is a distinct 'grittiness' about the characters, which has been long over due.
Higgins is a great storyteller. This is a great book. I liked it. A climax that was explosive.
I've read 5 or 6 Higgins books, and this is one of my favorites.  I like Sean Dillion.  I also enjoyed the Rashid Family as characters, although I was surprised how quickly and easily Dillion went through them.  I thought there would be a few more left for the sequel.
This is my second Higgins novel and I am reall getting into this world that has been created by the author. I have learned a lot of the IRA in ways that I find pretty entertaining if at times a little fantastic. The story once again centers around Dillon the bad boy of the IRA that is now working for the British. His mission is to stop this family of half British and half Arab bilionaires. The action is non-stop and pretty interestng. It's a quick read sometime that is to the point and nothing really deep. The only compaint that I have is that I want to know more of Dillon but little by little we are seeing more of the character and some character growth.
Sean Dillon again impishly dances the Irish Jig through England, Ireland, and parts of Saudi Arabia, while efficiently wounding and killing every bad guy in or out of sight and drinking a Bushmill's while doing it all. Saying that, Higgins can put out a story that keeps the pages turning, your mind working and suddenly reaching the end you are thinking of his next offering.  Heres hoping the next is as good.  God bless all here.
delivered on time and item was as described
Lots of vital information but he is very redundant and that's the only thing keeping this from 5 stars
I love this book. I thought the characters were well-balanced in and the pace exciting. I can't wait for the sequel to this book.
a bit more than i expected, very nice book
Cool stuff wished for more pics, I can kill you with my phone!! lol simplistic genius.
Excellent book for training different kind of survival situations
Lots of information in a little book although it is not specific to region so there is a fair amount of information that would not necessarily pertain to the area you are in with regards to plants and such.
Bernard Cornwell's 'Richard Sharpe' series is one of the best historical fiction series ever written, and to have a new Sharpe adventure is a pleasure!  Even better is to now have an adventure of Richard Sharpe's younger soldiering days before Wellington promoted him to Lieutenant in 1809 Spain, to read of Sharpe's adventures in India, and it is my hope that Mr. Cornwell brings us more of Sharpe's adventures in India (although I will miss reading about Sharpe's escapades,adventures, and battles with Sergeant Patrick Harper at his side).  SHARPE'S TIGER, although an adventure in itself to be read at any period in the SHARPE series, is another wonderful way to introduce readers to Richard Sharpe, the best damn soldier ever in the British Army, now or ever!
This book gives the background in detail of the hero.  Even though it is the latest in the long series - it is really the first book.  It answers all kinds of questions about Sharpe.  Very well written, easy to follow.  And as usual an exciting yarn.  For old fans it is a great incite into the hero, and for new readers, it sets the stage for the series
I look forward to reading a Jack Higgins novel. As a kid I read every Ian Fleming 007 book I could find. Granted Higgins is not Fleming and Sean Dillon is not James Bond-but I draw the parallel just the same because I like the action stories and Jack Higgins never disappoints when it comes to action. If you like the action/danger story, one that will most assuredly place you at the edge of your chair, at the edge of your bed, or at the edge of your toilet seat, depending on where you do your most serious reading, then Edge of Danger is the book for you. Jack Higgins is a far better writer than I so when I offer criticism I do it in my most humble way. So here it is, I get tired of plots involving the President of the United States.
See story summary above. No doubt an action packed story that'll take you from spots in England to spots in the Mideast. Pure action all the way. If that's all your looking for, look no further. As far as details and dialogue are concerned, there is very little to sink your teeth into, which is typical for a Higgins novel. Though short and to the point, I do enjoy his books. I would match super hero Sean Dillon against any fictitious villian. Good escapist fiction and quick reading make this book enjoyable. Recommended.
Lots of info
Ok, but a little broad information for what I needed it for. Great if you traveled for adventure.
I love historical fiction when done well.  Sometimes the language is a bit coarse but actually tame by today's standards. Exciting and well written
Hard to put down any of Cornwell's books! Looking forward to the next adventure for "Sharpie"!
Very good read!
good book
Nyce read
Small and compact, but seems to have it all. Might need glasses to read it.
good author great story.
My 5 year old isn't quite ready for chapter books but I wanted to introduce him to Narnia.  This is a pretty good start and the illustrations are gorgeous.  The story is a bit chopped up but its enough for a young mind to grasp and my son wants it read to him nightly since it arrived 2 weeks ago.
lots of info.  I skimmed it and put it in my B.O.B.
I love history trips Sharpe goes on. I have read 4 of this series and look forward to the next time.
Enjoyable, even if formulaic.
In good shape for a retired library book. Was the right size for reading to others and showing drawings.
great book, enjoyed it. I love historical based stories
Good portrait of the time and place.
I can't believe I hadn't heard of this series before now. Characters are interesting and colorful. Story moves at a good pace with several unusual twists. I love the way Cornwell blends history with his characters.
This action tale is an action-packed sequence of battles, hairbreadth escapes, imprisonment, terror, loyalty, and tigers. True (mostly) to what actually happened in India in the 1790s, the fictional characters and actions mix seamlessly with the  historical ones. The only thing that kept me from giving this its 5th star was the horrible lack of competent copy editing in the ebook version. If I had ever turned in such shoddy work in high school English classes, I never would have made it to graduation, let alone into college. Amazon and the individual publishers really NEED to put human eyes on the print before sending it out into the world.
Excellently written and full of well thought out characters.
The illustrations are beautiful, however the text was abridged oddly in some places. It's a good introduction to Narnia for my 4 year old and I look forward to him being older to read the unabridged version.
I read the first few chapters and I find it pretty interesting. I am eleven years old. I watched the movie , Narnia and loved it! I have the book at home. This book includes amazing mystery. I would recommend this book to people who love mystery books and adventure ones.
My husband and I love this series and can't wait to read the unabridged versions to our kids. In the meantime, I was looking for an age-appropriate version for our 3-year-old son, who LOVES books and epic stories. We like the art work on this and think it does a fair job of abridging this work for a younger audience (book advertises for ages 4 to 8). Because we wish the story were a little better developed, I'm only giving this 4 stars.
Just be clear that this is not a fully illustrated version. I did not realize that from the description.
This doesn't say in the title that this is the pocket edition. I know it's my fault for not looking closer but I think you should add it. I give it 4 stars because unbeknownst to me at purchase, I actually prefer this one.
I tossed this in my end times bag.  I probably won't ever open it to read it, but it's nice to have an instruction manual if I'm having to live off of plants and sew my arm back on.
Always a great story full of good characters and admirable morals.
Late to the Sharpe series so starting at the beginning. Glad I did.  Like many, you can't help but like Private Sharpe and the story and book were very entertaining. It involves just enough historical fiction with  historical facts. I'm moving on to the second book and see no reason not to recommend this read. Characters from all parts of the good guy bad guy spectrum can be found.
It was a very enjoyable read
Would have been better without the large amount of spelling errors on every other page. For 10$ I would have expected Amazon to provide a more quality ebook product.
Handy little book to throw in your bug out, survival, or camping/hiking bag
small pocket size
Item delivered on time, was as described, great customer service. I would Definitely buy again and I would recommend to my friends
Ok, small is nice. Full of mostly common knowledge.
It's a good book with a lot of useful information. It's a little too heavy to put in a bug out bag though imo.
The picture is not the cover of the book I got.  I got the same book I would have gotten if I had bought the boxed set.  I bought this particular one because I didn't want the set, I wanted the book with this picture on it.  :(
First of many anticipated pleasurable reads in the Sharpe series.
enjoyed
Everyone should have one of these. But, be sure you pack your magnifying glass because the print is very small! I may buy the newer, bigger version that is easier on the eyes. Keep this one for the bug out bag; the larger version to study at home.
Smaller than expected
Great character development that slips you into a very specific time and place in history. Well researched and fine storytelling!
Great read, lots of action.  finally found the first one, I am reading them all
Friend recently introduced me to the Richard Sharpe series and I love them. Plan to order every book in the collection.
book is smaller than expected. Thick but height and width small
Excellent story, very close to historic events, and it comes with an author's note explaining what is fiction and what's not in the end. unfortunately, the kindle version came with LOTS of spelling mistakes. Things like "bad" instead of "had". It seems that someone scanned the original book with a not so great OCR, and nobody proofread it.
Well written and holds your attention.  I read it in Kindle format--I don't know if in the printed work there are maps and diagrams.  It would be much easier to follow the military formations and battles if the reader had maps of the fortifications and battlefields.
Typical Bernard Cromwell, another great story. It's filled with historical references to a world I didn't know existed, Sharpe stories are always a pleasure to read.
My 10 year son had to read this for his summer reading assignment. It arrived quickly.
This book is the 2nd in the Narnia Chronicles and is just as fun as the first. I would recommend it for children as the writing style is easy to read and story is suspenseful and entertaining without being too graphic. The illustrations are very good and add to the enjoyment of the book. It's a good book for persons who like fantasy and can truly be called a classic
A fun and entertaining read. Enough action and anticipation to keep the pages turning.
Reminded me alot of San Andreas and I thought San Andreas was a little but a good read.
I read this book in an English class in the seventh grade (the teacher was a World War II Navy vet).  I'd forgotten how gloomy and tragic it was.  Never read this yarn in the winter; you'll just feel cold!
Was a very good book excellently written and gripping until the end.  I liked the fact that the book gave a insight to what life was like on those Russian Convoys.  Well done Maclean
Compact book.  Lots of great information.  I would suggest also buying some type of magnifying glass or card since in low light and in te wild it may be a bit hard to read.
Just started reading, great so far
good book
Nice book to read to Kids. The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is the first book of the Chronicles of Narnia Series, set in early 20th century during the world war. Peter,Susan,Edmond and Lucy the main characters in the story were to leave their home in London to an old professor's mysterious house away from the predicaments of the war like air-raids. In the old house it just so happened Lucy the youngest of the lot discovers a mysterious old wardrobe which is a port to entirely different land consists of magical creatures as well as foul and evil witch. Though it is like reading Harry Potter without any mystery, the tone of the book is riveting.
Good book, lots to read.
Once again Sharpe wins, I expect nothing else, I watch this series on TV years ago and wish they would bring it back,Cornwell tells very much the same story, war boy meets girl, later man meets woman, war,war, battle, fight, war , battle, man meets another women, more war,and I enjoy the adventure. The stories are histrionically corrected in the end of each book.
vintage Cornwell and good reading, excellent depiction of colonial India but much prefer cornwell's more recent work.
This is the second Sharpe novel I have read, the fir of a set of prequels to novels written earlier. It begins Sharpe's rise up in the ranks stating as a private in India. Overall I liked it a lot and was tempted to give it five stars. The description of the British colonial India and the military campaign is excellent and many of the minor characters were sharply drawn. Sharpe's character was harder than my memory of the other novel, and the main villain I found unbelievable.
Good historical novel.  Hadn't read any of this series before.  Kind of like "Hornblower" or "Master and Commander" but for an British Army guy in India.  Good read.
Love all of AM's stuff.  Great war book but "British speak" so kind of hard to understand some terms
Enjoyed this book a lot.  Exciting to the very end.
I devoured Alistair Maclean books as a boy. Greatly enjoyed reading this book again after the passing of many years. A great story teller from a bygone era
Sharpe is a warrior. He is a great character with my sides. First in book series it take place on Indian. Sharpe is on a mission to save a general. The book is a good read very well done
Excellent book with little straying from history. Some distractions from simple misspelled words likely caused by electronic transfer. Will proceed with series.
Very nice!
Good little book for the get out of town bag
I did find out how to do some things
nice
fine read enjoyed it a lot
Strongly written  novel of a fascinating time in history -- many younger readers may not relate to WWII and those who made up 'The Greatest Generation'.
Great and simple (but not simplistic) read. The typologies of Christ drawn by C. S. Lewis in this short story help show our Lord in a more child like manner. It definitely warms the heart and evokes a sense of adventure and longing.
Should be updated a bit - looks like 10 years old, when it comes to technologies mentioned. Of course basic knowledge is forever valid, great guide and validated more than anything else. Recommended!
Lots of good information. I'm still giving it three stars as it was my fault for not paying attention to the actual size of the book. The book is SUPER small and difficult to read unless of course you have 20/20 vision. I still thinks it's has great potential and will definitely fit in my pack... just need to buy reading glasses.
Great story telling and character development. You're going to want to read the entire series when you're done with this one
A great yarn set in a historical context. As long as you can accept it as just that it is a quite enjoyable read.
I think I enjoyed this book as much as an adult, as I did a teenager. This time through, I was especially taken with the character of Lucy. She is inarticulate when not believed by her siblings. She doesn't have the vocabulary to express herself and bursts into tears at their disbelief.  I was struck by Lewis' line when Father Christmas was handing out weapons to the boys, but denied them to the girls (except a bow and arrows for Susan), for 'battles are ugly when women fight.' From what I've read, battles are ugly no matter who is fighting.  At any case, this is an ageless story, fit for boys and girls, no matter what age they are.
It is a great adventure for both adults and children. I recommend this book for people who like adventures. -McKenna
World War II buffs will enjoy this one.  It gives one of the most detailed descriptions of the dangerous and difficult life of sailors on a ship of war - and the Ulysses is guarding a convoy headed to Murmansk, inside the Arctic Circle.  The main characters are well-developed and the story tense and realistic, although this is a work of fiction.  This book really made me appreciate the sacrifices made by the men who served in the naval forces during WW II, and  the difficulties of those making the tough decisions of sending them out to war.
great
very informative, nice thick book
The first book in the Sharpe series, it gets the reader off to a great start, and you want to follow Sharpe all the way through his career.  Very easy to read.  I love historical fiction and Cornwell keeps to the facts, there may be some minor changes to make the story work, but he explains them within the notes at the end of the novel.
As a newcomer to the books of Sharpe (only Sean the TV series) I enjoyed the book, especially the true history at the end.  Well done to Bernard Cornwell and look forward to reading Sharpe's Triumph.
A must read if you area a follower of Richard Sharpe and his life in the English Army. His time in India his adventures and misadventures. Very descriptive and exciting to read.
After reading Alaric Longwards new historical novel, I wanted to read this book again, I just love these historical series.
Very good book, well written and keeps you excited throughout.  Cornwell's books are always good and this is no exception.
Recently I read The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, by C.S. Lewis. This book is considered fantasy and has 186 pages. The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is about four children who have to go and live with their uncle because of air-raids during World War II. In the uncles house, Lucy, one of the children, finds a wardrobe. Inside the wardrobe, she discovers a whole new world and the adventure begins. The setting for the story is in Narnia, the mythical world that Lucy discovers. Lucy shares it with her brothers and sisters.  The story is told in the third person. There are four protagonists in the story, Lucy, Peter, Susan, and Edmund. Some other major characters are the White Witch, Aslan (the lion), Mr. Tumnus, and Mr. and Mrs. Beaver.  The children try to stop the witch and get their brother Edmund back, after he was captured by the witch. At first, they get help from a faun named Mr. Tumnus. Shortly after, Mr. Tumnus is arrested by the witch. They then turn to the beavers and Aslan for help. What follows is a monumental battle between the children, Aslan, and the witch. If you like fantasy, then this is a great book for you.
a winner for kids.  enjoyable but superficial for me, a senior. i give it 4 stars for kids, but only 2 for adults.
My son loves this!  Nice that it is so small and can fit easily in one's pocket!
There are better books for those who want get started planning for the unexpected.  You will want this if going hard core prepper but not as one of your first books. Not for those of us not militarily trained.
If you have read any of the Sharpe novels, then this novel is where it all starts.  Cornwell seems to use the same formula for all of the novels but his history and battle scenes make it all seem worthwhile.
Well written as all Cornwell's books and informative. You care about the characters and what will happen next. Regretfully there were way too many typo's.
This is a good start for what I expect to be an entertaining series. I remember the TV version, having seen a few of the episodes, and am looking forward to the books. Bernard Cornwell has written many books that I have enjoyed imensely and his great battle descriptions and clever plot lines draw you in and keep you involved right up to the end.
I really enjoyed the storyline of this book. It held my interest all the way through. I did find something disappointing, however. the book ha a lot of typos. Most of the typos were a mix-up of b's and h's. This was probably spell check errors. An example is the word hut used where but was called for. I even saw an instance where the line needed hut and but was there. This was somewhat annoying because in some places it interrupted the story.
35 years after first reading it as a teenager, it still holds up. MacLean's vivid descriptions
I enjoy all of Alistair Maclean's books.  HIS Ulysses is sad but depicts  hidden strength
A must have in your EDC bag this book has a little bit of everything in it overall happy with it
Our kids love reading it a lot. They keep saying "The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe" :)
good book and an addition to the rest of the series.
Terrific story of brave yet human wartime sailors keeps one spellbound throughout the book.
Very good informative book
The book was an easy read with right-to-the-point instructions and pictures and diagrams; I only wish the book included a chapter on some kind of emergency self-defense combat or urban defense.
Cornwell has a knack for describing moments and situations without boring me to tears.  His characters each have their own points, good or bad.  A plentiful supply of foes amongst friends and friends amongst foes.  Set in the very early 1800s, I found his description of every day life in the English army and the East India Tea Company to be so much different than I've hear or read before.  Sharpe is a rogue and a rascal that I plan to follow.  Fans of colonial history and military readers should enjoy this,,,  I certainly did.
Harrowing tale of convoy duty in WW II. Maclean's early success.
Very we'll written and true to Life
A story of courage and spirit under unimaginable conditions. Takes you right where the action is and makes you experience it.
Great book, put it in your PRINT library.
As with all Bernard Cornwell' books, Sharpe's Tiger, with its compelling story line, and its many twists and turns, made the thought of putting the book down almost sinful.  Its story line with its many twists and turns; its colorful and interesting characters; its detail and clearly defined action and battle actions were outstanding and remarkable - it made you feel as if you were actually there.  It was an outstanding read!!!!
I loved this book when I read it years ago and carried the memory of it. However, on re-reading there's a dated feel to the writing, probably due to our changed needs and perceptions of modern books. It is still a gripping and very sad war story. The Murmansk convoys and the men who served on those ships should never be forgotten. And the fact that the book is written by one of those men has impact. Read and remember, but don't expect to feel good at the end.
has useful info on all types of survival a bit heavy to pack in go bag
This book has been written by a very serious person: Lofty Wiseman. The drawings are very clear and very easy to understand. The binding of this book is  very delicate! Certain arguments in this book do not belong to a survival handbook: How to cope with computer viruses, self defence, etc..... Therefore only FOUR STARS!
Good reference in a pocket sized survival guide.
I LOVE THIS BOOK AND I RECEIVED MY ORDER IN A TIMELY FASHION. THANK YOU SO MUCH!!
I found rereading this childhood favorite much less pleasurable than the memory I've attached to it all these long years. As one of the books that built the foundation of my life as a reader, I was surprised at the dark quality of the some parts of the narrative. I recall the mystical quality of the wardrobe and the magical world that lay inside of it's dark confines. I suppose my adult brain got in the way. None of this changed how I felt about the tale overall. This is still a great read and a must for children and adults who love reading.
Classic book.  Good read.
I love Sharpe. I love the Chosen Men, the Brilliant Master-Spies who send him out on Impossible Missions, the heinous Villains, the exotic Settings. "Sharpe's Tiger" is too much, even for me. When our Intrepid Officer kills a Man-Eating Tiger in the Dungeons of the Evil Sultan and then goes on to kill 4 Giant Executioners with his bare hands I lost interest. Sharpe is Bond and the Mission Impossible Team rolled into one in this novel. He even gets all the beautiful women. Cornwell went too far in this exciting story. It was difficult to suspend my disbelief. The reader loses interest because he knows that Sharpe will succeed--no matter what the odds. But..... I recommend this episode for a plane flight or vacation book list. I love Sharpe!!
A great read and preamble to the Sharpe series that fills in some context for one who has read them all.
I really enjoyed learning about India's history and the tactics and employment of weaponry thru an historical fictional novel like this.  I am currently hooked on the series and am now on my fourth in the series and have enjoyed them so far.
Very petite but packs in a lot of useful information. Good for any survivalist to have.
great pocket size guide, only thing better would have been water resistant pages
Although Tiger is not written first, it is the first chronologically and benefits by this. Nothing I have read by Cornwell is bad, but this book benefits due to his more mature talents and familiarity with his characters and material.
I enjoyed the book very much and was my first Cornwell novel.  I believe it was a well written, interesting read and will read another novel before making final judgement on Cornwell's stuff.
Interesting reflections on history linked into some good storylines and characters.  Some of it seems a bit over the top but entertaining none the less.
The illustrations are beautiful and the story is abridged just enough to make it accessible for younger readers but retains the story. It was exactly what I hoped for.
I enjoyed this book because it was an example of how futile war is and how people are considered expendable by leaders and still are. The story was written more as a screen play than a novel so was very visual.
It is a typical gritty story of the freezing conditions that these very brave men encountered on the North Cape Convoys. I actually sailed with a man called George Gray who was a Steward/Gunner on a P&O ship on these convoys. His brother was a cook on the same vestle and took he George his allocated tot of rum  up to the gun turret where the crew were NOT allocated a tot. This story made some of my crewmates stories live.
Good addition to the home library
Nice guide
Sharpe's is a great series, love it.  The problem I have is that whoever digitized it did an extremely poor job. There are tons of misspelled words in this e-book.  It wasn't so bad you couldn't figure it out...but it's pretty annoying to have paid good money for an e-book and those who produced it could not take the time to make sure it was correct.  If this keeps happening in further editions I won't buy anymore.
The editor of this Kindle edition deserves a British Army style flogging similar to the one Private Sharpe receives in the story.  I would be ashamed to have published such a badly edited edition.  The spelling errors are so frequent that I lost count of them!  This was  disgraceful performance.  Cornwell' s story is great!  It's a damned shame the editor didn't think highly enough of it to do a professional job of putting this edition together.  Cornwell deserves to have his work treated with more respect than this.
Reading "Sharpe's Tiger", you feel yourself in the crude world of a British soldier in India.  I loved reading it, the story is compelling and it really helps you to understand the history of the British domination in India.
This series was highly recommended by a friend, and the story did not disappoint. I purchased the Kindle version, and the proofreading was a sad disappointment. Literally scores of words and/or punctuation are obviously erroneous. These distract from "the read," not from the story or the book. The fact that these errors persist -- despite having been identified years ago in another Amazon review -- is frankly unforgivable, as they are so readily identified and so easily remedied.  Sadly, it appears the publisher is simply interested in pursuing profit, and is willing to allow the reader and quality to fend for themselves. Too bad, as the story and the adventure were excellent. Perhaps not as good as Patrick O'Brien's "Lucky Jack" Aubry series, but that is a high standard, indeed.
Though i have read cornwell's other books, this was my first sharpe novel. Was overall a good read, though not his best.
Stumbled onto this series and read this book and its sequel in two weeks.  Really enjoyed the 1st 2 books and I am looking forward to the rest of the series
Great little survival guide with TONS of information! Just keep in mind that this is a pocket edition; it's about as big as the palm of my hand.
A great introduction to the characters of this series of books.  This historical background provides an interesting hook to the fictional and historic characters portrayed leading up to and participating in the siege. Recommended for lovers of history and a good yarn. Bernard Cornwell's style makes for compulsive reading
Once more into the bloody English army with Private Richard Sharpe in the chronologically first novel of this series.  They're in India.  Battle of Seringapatam.  Very fun, since I've been watching the TV series on Netflix.  Lovely (likely the wrong word) to once again picture Peter Postlethwaite as the villanous Obadiah Hakeswill.  And oh, yes, of course, Sean Bean as the unconquerable Sharpe.
Great book, lots of good information, happy with my purchase.
This is a must read...for all ages.
Seems to have a lot of good tips. It is a lot thicker than I expected.  I put this in my bug out bag just in case.
Sharps Tiger. A very entertaining read, based on historical facts. Also provides an inside to how life was at that time in India and the British Army.
My fianc really likes this book. I didn't like how the storyline was so similar to the Bible or that the narrator was always talking to the reader.
This was one of my favorite childhood stories and I was glad to be able to read it with my 12 year old. We both enjoyed the tale of the faraway land inside of the wardrobe. My favorite part was the authors note to his god daughter, Lucy. How funny he was worried that this child would not like his book and it turned out to be a tale that every child across the world loves and adores.
If you buy the Kindle version, you must be prepared for numerous, and I mean numerous, spelling mistakes. The text looks like it was scanned in a hurry! For example, "Sharpe knew he was going to che here, but be was bloodily determined that he would die in company". At times, the mistakes average one per page, so if having to guess at what the text means annoys you, buy the paper version instead.
some of the things listed in this book aren't  things I can see many people using, too exotic. there is some good information however and it's a helpful book to reference.
Gives you a lot of good info.
Do not credit them coves what say Cornwell is another Patrick O'Brian because he ain't, not if it was ever so.  I do not mean to come it the great literary critic, no, but tis not a patch on Jack and Stephen, which it will be as obvious as the rose on your lace after 100 pages.  Oh, a cracking good story to be sure, just the thing to pass the time of a quiet dog watch, but a bit shallow and predictable by comparison.  The difference shall hit you like a thousand of bricks.  Should you crave summat in the British history line, you would be better served by re-reading the Aubrey Maturin stories a second, nay, a third time.  Mayhap I shall begin Master and Commander a sixth time tonight.
overall good.
its a handy guide. even if you don't use it to much
This is likely the most profound account of said battle I've yet to read.  With that, I find this tale to a fully sated pile of words.
I think the beginning of the book is wonderful, I read the sample and thought it was a truly magical book and decided to buy it. I searched it up on the store, found the book I was looking for but it said I couldn't  buy it!! I felt like someone was tesing me, letting me read the sample and then not having it available! why cant it be available its not like I'm buying a real paper book,I'm buying a file on a computer. I would really love it if they could fix this and have the book available and definitey recomend it from what I've read.
Childish in wording. But fair. Excellent story. Amazing undertones. I'd seen the movies long ago. As often true, the book was better.
it's a great book. no dough about it, but needs more drawings and pictures of the things the author describes. This book is a must have for every survival / prepper enthusiast..
I like the book. There is almost too much information, but for a book that was written to give people info on how to survive in any situation and in any climate, it is worth it. This is a great reference book and I will certainly carry it when I am traveling as a "just in case something happens" book and I get stranded somewhere.
This a very good book when you really dig deep it takes you to a whole other world. I really recommend this book for People that really like to read.
The books are better then the movies. Read the books first, and  you will enjoy  The Chroniles of Narnia much more Also I think you shouldn't go in the ctual order, it just ia not meant to be best in exact order. Now start reading!
This is a good book for young kids who aren't quite old enough for the original story.  My 4 year old loves Narnia! Pictures are captivating.
Very good combination of well-researched historical fiction with an exciting (if rather implausible) adventure yarn.
This survival handbook is great and packed with so much useful information. IT has pictures where needed and doesn't seem too out of date. There are some things in this book that I have seen and thought "man there is an easier way of doing this" or "there is a better product to have" but overall it uses simple and cheap things that everyone can get ahold of. Its nature section such as plants and food and everything is really great and gives a lot of information. The only downside is that I backpack a lot and I want to bring this with me but it is a dense book. It has some size and weight to it and hasn't ever come with me because of that. But other than that it is a great read.
Small book to read but easy to carry around
Good survival reference, and the addition of the "urban survival" is good. The "natural disaster" section seemed maybe a little light on the more likely scenarios, but it covered the breadth quite well. I purchased this one to read (yeah, I plan to read it for fun instead of waiting until I'm dehydrated and bleeding in the desert with mutant raiders chasing me while I fend off bears and mosquitoes in the middle of an earthquake ;-) instead of to keep with me when hiking, camping, traveling or just to keep in the glovebox. For the portability in those cases (small size/weight), you really want the 2nd edition "Collins gem" version, which is roughly 4.5"x3.25"x. 8", but is missing the urban/natural disaster survival sections, and self-defense too I think. So, if you want the "Collins gem" version of the 3rd edition you'll need to write to the publisher and bug them to publish it, or like me, buy both 2nd and 3rd editions for equally good reasons.
You can't beat the price of .01
this book arrived quickly and looks like it will be useful but it is a tiny pocket version. I had seen the pocket version and then this, which I thought would be normal....so I chose this. I am giving it as a gift so no time for return and reorder. What a surprise! very small type and a little hard to thumb through. Still, I reviewed the listing and it does give the dimensions...I would NOT say it is clear as it is in the details
I feel good having this in case the SHTF and I cant get on google anymore.
Lots of useful tips. My only complaint is with the eatable plant photos.  They could have used real life plant images on something that important.
A lot of useful information, and valuable skills everyone should know
I have always loved action stories and this one is just really good it is not my favorite book but it is a good one I recommend it to you if you like action books or books that are like their movies. I forgot to tell you the book is just like the movie kind of
After 25 years, the book still has its same charm. Gripped reading and suitable for young teens and above. Captivating story with good moral lessons.
I choose four stars because it's not the best but It's still amazing. I would recommend this book to 10+ because it has a little bit violence.
Great book, small print though
daughter loved it and it will always be a classic.  I tried reading it to her but maybe I started a little to early (she's 5).  Maybe she just isn't ready to pay that much attention.  That and she asks a lot of questions, which isn't a bad thing.
A great book for anybody between the age of 9-13.  A fun adventure with many good parts. Not my favorite book,but decent enough to read. I'm 13 and I thought the book was good. BUT would not get this book for anybody older than 13. Good book, great characters, and a great ending. A great classic for young readers.
Great book for young readers seeking a great adventure. Although the author sometimes writes how you talk if you lived in the 1940s-1950s. But still a great book
one of the better ones
The story is very interesting.
Good book
Bigger than I thought and much more about wilderness survial. Being in the burbs I don't think I will find wild plants for food or medicine or trap small animals etc. If you hike or camp or travel this os great to have and review before you go. Give yourself a few weeks to read it.
My book was cut incorrectly during binding. Not a seller issue. Surprised they didn't catch the mistake through their supplier. Still a great read. Would like a normal copy.
I assume it was good cause my daughter read it. She said it was a short story
This an action-packed story. 4 children discover a new world through the wardrobe. They meet friends and enemies along the way. This tale has traitors, forgiveness, drama and sadness. This book is really good and our 5th grade reading group recommends it. We love Aslan and the other characters. It's a great fantasy book with a theme of forgiveness being the answer.
I see a lot of people complaining about the size, which is one of my favorite things about it. I knew beforehand though that it was pocket sized. It's a good little primer with lots of helpful info. I imagine it as a great way to pass the time and learn something while in a camping or survival situation.  Ideally, you would want to have the knowledge and practiced skills before being in that situation, but it can't hurt, in my opinion, to have something like this in an emergency bag.
Useful Resource
Good story. Love the pictures.
Somehow I feel I am missing what is so great about it and CS Lewis.  Trying hard to find the genius and even taking the Hillsdale College on-line course about him.  So far, somewhat in the dark.
My five year old twins love the story and drawings
I liked it, some very interesting stuff. Hope I never need to use any of it, but the book is worth the cost and the time to read it.
Informative book. Good to refresh your survival skills
Narnia is a fantastic wonder place. As you read through you'll notice familiar things, almost like Deja-vu. That creature seems familiar, that Lion is extraordinary, those children appear neighborly....that's where the story begins.
The flavor is sweet and deep. Just two or three drops makes a simple salad into a great moment, or put a some drops over a steak and then you have the best.
Sent this as a gift to a client and he absolutely loved it.  He has mentioned several recipes that were quite good.
I liked how the story described a lot of details and how there was a magic place that Lucy found called Narnia
One of my all time favorites - and my childhood is far, far behind me!
I'd like it more if they hadn't felt the need to put, "A Celebration of the First Edition" on the the cover. God forbid it actually look like the first edition.
Pretty thorough book on survival, I like it.
A fair example of a survival manual.
information in here that can save your life.
Series was written by C. S. Lewis in the 1950s. A deeper meaning about good and evil (black and white) and how we are all searching, humanity that is, for that answers that will bring our species back to life (so to speak). Also just a wonderful adventure story for children.
Every prepper, camper ect...should own a copy this. Compact and filled with lifesaving info and knowledge that will lighten your pack load. A must have!
quite a good book, good range of topics, i wish they were more in depth. some factual errors, this urgently needs a fact check and PLEASE MAKE IT LIGHTER this book weighs a ton, i was hoping due to the weight that the paper would be waterproof (spoiler, its not) its a very heavy paper great for coffee table books, but crap for a survival handbook you should take with you
Its the size of my palm, I thought it was actual book size but It makes sense and Im happy! Thanks!
good survival book,a little too much dumbed down but good for bug out bag
Classic, and though I wouldn't call it "timeless," it is still relevant and entertaining.
great little book you can keep in a BOB
Possibly one of the best books from a true literary genius.  Surpasses anything she has written in the recent past, Daughter of Fortune is destined to be a classic in the same vain as House of Spirits.  Set in the  California Goldrush of 1849, Isabel takes her readers on a rich adventure  set against a landscape of an America in search of an identity.  Isabel  never fails to delight, be it Infinite Plan or Aphrodite... If you liked  Poisonwood Bible, Barbara Kingsolvers epic tale, you will love Daughter of  Fortune.  Buy this book, you won't be disappointed.
Interesting.
I have read a lot of her books and I love them. This  was as good but it ended kind of abruptly in my opinion. I wasn't ready for it. Nevertheless, she is a great writer, I love that she writes about Chile and I do recommend this book to readers.
This was a good but quirky story. I enjoyed the characters and the settings. I really liked the introduction of one strange character after another.
Allende always delivers a good read. Her depictions of gold rush California and the streets of San Francisco were great. And the love story was movingly done.
For those of you who have trouble reading small font, I would suggest you look elsewhere or have a magnifying glass handy.  But this book is extremely informative, maybe too informative.  I would not find myself examining every drawing of a bush or shrub in this book to learn exactly what it is and what it does.  Just the basics will do.  It covers the basics and quite a bit more, so people who like to examine every possibility or option will be happy with it.
Very interesting story, learned about Chile as well as early San Francisco. A little slow at times, but overall a good read!
Good story!  A little wordy at times!
Grand daughter was happy with it.
Great book that can take you through any situation.  I keep it in my car's glove compartment in case anything goes amiss among my travels.
Good information, but if you are over 45 you better not lose or break your reading glasses.  The book is 3.25" X 4.5", and the font is VERY small.
Beautifully written saga of a young girl's journey to womanhood. The depth of character development carries the reader through their triumphs and sufferings. This is a story about love, so deep, pure and sensuous, that can uplift and destroy vulnerable hearts for a lifetime. The ending does seem abrupt and leaves us wondering what will happen, and that's because we have become so involved in each character's life quest. I look forward to reading more of Allende soon.
I enjoyed the book very much...looking forward to reading more of CSLewis.
Enjoyed this family story, messy as most families are.
interesting story -good read
was what advertised.....fine, readable
I gained a much better understanding of the struggle of India for its independence and its problems with Pakistan. For the amount of information in the book it was amazingly easy to read and maintained my interest.
This is an excellent book. However, the Kindle e-book has many typo errors. Please will Amazon edit the book for future downloads. Thank you. Also, what e-mail address do I use to communicate with Amazon? I can't phone as I live in South Africa.
Great adventure
This book has a very simple plot:  boy meets girl / boy goes away / girl looks for boy.  Interwoven in that framework, however, are the biographies of the important characters in the book.  The reader gets a sense of the life and times of the early to mid-1800s.  As the location transfers from Chili to the California Gold Rush, the narration depicts the wild and crude life of early California.  This is a fascinating book with a few disappointments.  (One wonders how a girl can pose as a boy for an extended period of time.)  The author plants the seeds for a resolution to the story but the book abruptly ends.  I suppose the reader can guess what finally happens but I always like the author to tie the bow on the package.
I read this years ago in paperback and wanted a digital version since my original copy had long been lost. It's still as magnificent a story as ever, but the Kindle edition desperately needs a spell check. Still in the introduction and there are at least 2 misspelled words per page.
Good
A little large for a backpack.  Has more information on regions than I need.  A lot of it is common sense that I've already learned.
Loved this book...somehow I missed it as a child.  Must read.
This engrossing novel focuses on the growth of Eliza, a young woman who breaks free of the genteel role assigned to her in 19th-century Chile and goes through successive stages of self-discovery, empowerment, and love. However, Eliza is surrounded by an enormous variety of colorful characters who keep the novel moving along. There is a certain mythic quality to many characters and plot elements, and I feel that only Eliza and and her adopted mother figure, Miss Rose, really occupy a full three dimensions. Furthermore, the author rather self-consciously weaves a lot of explanation into the narrative, as if not trusting the readers to draw their own conclusions. Nevertheless, there is plenty of historical interest in this book, conveyed in a lively and evocative style.
Intriguing
Another good book from my favourite author. Its a great blend of history and family drama. I was Travelling in South America at the time i read this so added a good touch. Also learned few interesting facts about gold rush.
Loved this book! Wonderful story of perseverance on the part of a very young girl who faced many challenges.  It was unpredictable which created much interest. I so enjoyed the story line!
Great book on the history of making India an independent country.
For survival lgood for information, good luck to us all and to all a good night for each and every one of us
love story with historical background. very interesting.
This book starts with life in the British community in Chile in the mid 1800s. New to me - I had no idea that there was one. The plot follows the life of Eliza, a teenage woman who lives with a prosperous British family in Valparaiso. Eliza then travels to California and makes her way on the fringes of the gold rush that has caused a huge influx of adventurers. Fascinating descriptions of what life was like for these folks - pretty difficult once the "easy" gold had been found. I found the end of the book disappointing. It ends very abruptly with no closure. Almost as if the author got bored with the story.
Though it is a novel it is very well researched for the historical facts.
Is a good book for kids from 5th to 8th grade ..this book can have its confusion and the put downs but is very auto radiant
Yes, the type, perhaps the font bcut certainly the size is difficult to read.  I remember reading thestrony sgory before and recommend it.
Very interesting story. Loved learning about Chile, the Gold Rush and early immigrants. A read that is well worth your time!
Interesting story.  Read excellently by Blair Brown.
I LOVE HISTORICAL FICTION AND THIS WAS ONE OF THE BEST. SO ORIGINAL AND ONE OF THE KIND PLOT.
Interesting story about the gold rush.
It was a little slow at first.  Found it very interesting after they reached San Francisco.
Excellent translation full of many period descriptions from 3 cultures. Very enjoyable read.
Every page held my attention
As always a great read from Allende
Fascinating account of events that have shaped our modern world.  Not a quick read, however.  Set aside a few months for this one, and take it in small bites if you are not already familiar with the subject matter and the main players.
A very comprehensive book. It isn't always organized the way I would do it and I can't help but wonder if the same information couldn't be condensed. Better coverage of edible ocean fish would be great.
Humorous and informative. Our museum book club liked it.
Good
As usual, Isabel delivers a wonderful story.
Too long,needed some editing.
I was surprised at the size because I hadn't read of the book's dimensions....I thought it would be a larger picture book size just from looking at the picture of it.  After my initial surprise, I was totally satisfied.  Love its size and everything about it.  Thanks for your inquiry.  Bjpd
The book is an excellent introduction to the partition of India.  It appears biased, as Lord Mountbatten is a primary source, and receives little criticism.  The book is easy to read, and has many brief personal stories to provide a sense of what the events were like for those participating (suffering) in the events.  I did not give it five stars because I felt that there was not enough critical review of the actions by both British and India leaders that lead to horrible suffering by hundreds of thousands of people.
There are two ways to review a book. One is by content another by the quality of the book itself.  The content of "Freedom "  is great. The best single read to understand the tensions between the modern states of India and Pakistan. Laprie and Collins are at their best here.  However I was disapointed  to find the quality of the book itself was poor. The paper was substandard ( close to newspaper quality). The Picture on the hard back was seeminly glued and ofset. The plates ( pictures)  inside the book were hard to see and the captions were difficult to read . Had I known the quality was this bad I would have ordered the soft back version. Sadly this book was to be a present . Buyer beware!!
Although the premise for the heroin to come to Sacramento and San Francisco was a little far fetched, it gave an interesting account of the activities and attitudes in the gold rush country.
good. historical content. an interesting read.
Loved this series growing up (still do), just loaned my copy to someone and no longer had the entire set (restoring it with this book).
There are three reasons why Sons of Adam and Daughters of Eve will like The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, by C.S. Lewis. The first reason is adventure. Lucy, Edmond, Susan, and Peter were living in London and were taken to a professor's house where they found a wardrobe that led to somewhere magical. Where did it lead? It led to Narnia--which brings us to our second reason. Narnia is filled with mythological creatures. For example, there are nymphs and fauns. Finally, there's a witch who is hunting down the kids. Will she succeed? Read the novel to find out!
Excellent book...a tiny bit small for old eyes...you might think "what in the heck is an old guy doing with this?"...but it is never too late to learn!
Shipment problem first round, other than that book is what I expected It to be thank you
I have to accept that this is one of the better books regarding India's early days. The authors are great narrator, and it sounds more like a novel. One of the major flaws in a book is that it is written to glorify Mountbatten. For example, initially the book goes through a great detail to explain that it was Mountbatten's idea to give Independence quickly. It explains that he fights with Churchill, and he goes against most of his colleagues to give India's freedom quickly. But later when Punjab is burning, the authors say that it was the Indian leaders' idea to give freedom quickly.  I have to accept that I never read anything about Jinnah, Is he really as evil as he was portrayed in this book?  The authors really did a good work on Gandhi. Each and every event, such as Congress stabbing him in the back, controlling the riot in Calcutta was written well.  In conclusion, great book and a must read, but don't have your conclusion based on this book.
For those of you who were upset by the abrupt ending of this story, will find it continued, many years later, in Portrait in Sepia, through the eyes of Eliza's granddaughter.
I got the book to live in my bug-out-bag for emergencies. Ive paged trough it briefly and I will say it looks pretty thorough.
One of the best books on history I have ever read. Keeps you interested right through the end. However, the authors seemed to have praised Mountbatten beyond the limts. There are no heroes in this book apart from Mountbatten. I can live with Gandhi being partrayed as a human and not as a saint as many believe him to be, but a flawless Mountbatten is unbelievable. And in general, the British seem to have got more marks for their mishandling of the partition.
I did enjoy this book.  It is a book hard to describe.  It does keep one interested to the last page.
This is the book to read if you want to know India and Pakistan's love-hate relationship. A book which tackles human tragedies because decisions were made not by the people involve but by people  who have the  power to influence history. A story of a great person who wants freedom  through peaceful means.  A must read for every person on earth.
Good book small and easy to put in a bob
Great read. Don't expect every page to enlighten you. If you have been reading books similar it will a good read. Lofty has good real world advise. He learned from necessity not just from reading manuals
It contained historical information which was very informative,  and had a story that weaved throughout to show how things really were during the mid 1800's.
Read this one for book club.  It was my first Allende novel.  Loved the characters and the setting(s).  I wish it had been a bit shorter or more streamlined, as some sections seem to ramble on in a way that seems unedited rather than poetic.  I also wish the author would have explored the ending or final outcome more.  The ending is shocking and abrupt, and she just leaves you hanging with it.  It was a good book club selection- lots to talk about.  Also, it was historically educational (about the gold rush) without being boring.
At first, I found the book rather boring. It wasn't until the second part that it really picked up for me, and boy, did it! Once Eliza got out in the real world, her life became fascinating, filled with prostitution, gold, the search for a lost lover, etc. The ending, however, did leave me a bit unsatisfied, because I couldn't tell if Eliza was telling the truth or not. But all in all, a great read.
First--I had to go out and buy a copy, as the copy I had paid for through Amazon never arrived and I  needed it for my book club. The book itself was entertaining--a quick read.  It gives an interesting view of the goldrush in California and how multicultural the people were who flocked here for the gold.  Alllende's use of descriptions is delightful. as is her character development.  It was a good read.
Great story. Haven't  read it in years. Good over evil is always a great  thing.
As advertised.  It covers a LOT of ground so might be missing some detail.  For urban or short-term prepping "survival" situations I would not recommend this.
Good historical fiction giving the reader a sense of life in the mid 19th century for life in Chile and California .
Not quite the magic of Island but another very good read.  See gordonsgoodreads.com for my complete overview of both of these very good novels.
This book was good reading and story line moved along.  Hunting for her lover and the dangers was real . Well done our  book club enjoyed it .
Pictures could be better, but it was sufficient for what it was.
Perfect for my 6 year old. I read a chapter a night to her and she loves it.
I love having this handy survival guide in my bug out bag.  It's small size (1 x 3 x 4.8 inches) is great as it doesn't take up much space in my bag, however it weighs almost half a pound.  My bag is already heavy, however, this useful guide is one thing I'm keeping in it.
Great to have in back pack!
Great guide!!!
A lot of information in this book. Covers a lot. Some of the information isn't in much detail. Overall a good book.
I haven't picked up this book since I was a child. I enjoyed blazing through it again but found myself longing for a longer, more developed story and characters. Wonderful quotes and parallels to religion in the best sense, the quest for joy, and the divine prerogative of God who is never a tamed lion.
The book was in good shape, it just took way to long to get, I learned from this experience, if I need something right away order directly from amazon
I read the book before (from the library) and decided to buy it so I could read it again, which I did and enjoyed it again.  Wonderful descriptions of life in California during the gold rush.
I listened to this on audio and was mesmerized for the most part. I loved the charachters and how the plot wove between Chile, China and California.  However when I got to the last disc I thought how on earth is this all going to tie together.  It seems that Ms Allende is setting us up for a sequel. That's the only explanation that I can  see because it leaves the reader hanging to some degree.  Daughter of Fortune is better than Zorro and I think it is because there is more character development of the women.  I also found it interesting how Ms Allende described the many types of love that one encounters in one's lifetime.
I saw this book at a book store for almost twice the price. It has almost everything you need, including color photo of edible plants to extend your survival should you ever need it. Only down side to this book is its weight at 3-5lbs which most would not recommend for backpacking. I just ordered a lightweight compact stove to offset the weight and plan on using this to read while sitting at base camp. It is also good because I found a few things I forgot I wanted to teach my boys.
As a lover of historical fiction, I found this book to be great fit for me, even though it is not about a historical figure.  The event in United States history that is described, the Gold Rush, is one I had not done any previous reading about, and found it fascinating as a socio-cultural phenomenon.  Weaving the story of a young girl in search of her true love, and the lengths she was willing to go in order to do so, into the Gold Rush story was an excellent vehicle for describing both human behaviors and psychological processes.  I especially found her relationship with the Chinese man interesting, having recently read Lisa See's novel, "Peony In Love," which intrduced me to the Chinese belief system regarding ghosts.  In all, the book was fascinating and engaging, the characters believable, and the story line extremely interesting.  Now I want to know what comes next for the heroine!
EXCELLENT!
I love this book. It was full of romance of course and I don't really like much mushy stuff because mushy stuff can lead to corny lines and doings and all things corny but man, I was caught up in all of Eliza's tale from Joaquin to Tao-Chen... it was great. I didn't really want it to end. Isn't it nice to just read a good nice book where you aren't bored of reading it all? I recommend it to everyone. A story of a girl who as a baby was left in a basket outside the door of a rich English family living in Chile. She grows up to become a civilized young lady, smart and educated but falls in love with a poor boy who flees to California and where she too goes to follow the man she fell in love with only to find another man who becomes the real love of her life. Oh lala. I became a sucker for the romance.
I had previously read The Stories of Eva Luna and wanted to try another Allende book. I love her writing style. In Daughter of Fortune, the end dragged a bit and maybe she should have dropped a character or two. I also never really felt the love between the main character and the person with whom she ended up. Maybe there are a few more loose ends that could have been tied up as well, but I don't want to put any spoilers. Considering these minor details, this is truly a great read! I love how she writes historical fact into the novel and transcends the reader to another time with a modern mind.
great book covers all the basics my only problem is this book is not very clear on certain issues and can be kinda of vague on somethings but all in all a great book
Excellent book with a lot of pictures to see what the author is describing. Thank you.
I wasn't sure what this was. I thought it was a book, but it is more of a story on CD. When I say story, it is like a movie on CD. It paints the picture well and is entertaining.
I agree with another reviewer, it had such an abrupt ending and I was disappointed by this. I really did want it to keep going! It kept my attention and I felt the historical references were interesting, though I am not by any means a historical buff so I do not know what of it is true.
an absorbimg novel in Allende's imimitable style of blending fiction with historical background.
Very good
Great Book! Why are they so expensive now?
This is the first book I read by this author and I liked it well enough to buy two more of her books.  This novel is slow to start.  There is a lot of background information that you need to wade through before getting to the good stuff... but it is well worth it.  The background information is needed to make the rest of the story so good.  Once the story gets going it is fast moving and very interesting.  I was completely engrossed in the story and felt like I knew the characters personally.  Very good book - worth the read!
A classic story from beginning to end. Loved it as a child and still do today many years later.
Informative. Nice book.  A bit thick and heavy.
Lots of great tips. Keep it in your car or camping gear.
I think this is a great book that takes you on a great adventure. I enjoyed how the author would pull you into the book. You could start from any part of this book and not take your eyes off until you were finished. I like books with adventure, especially this one because the things that Eliza and Tao experienced together were things that really happened at that time period. I never imagined myself reading any historical fiction books but now that has changed. I recommend this book to anyone who likes historical fiction books because it will be a book that will always stay with you.
Very well done by Ms. Isabel Allende. I like the book from start to finish. The secrets that each of the character holds kept me wanting to read more and more. Then soon enough, i could not put it down anymore. The love triangle between Tao Chi'en, Eliza, and Joaquin kep me connected to the book. I gave this book 4 stars because it kept me connected and interested. After reading this book, I also got into reading book that are made by Ms. Allende.  I would recommend this book to everyone who wants to read about the adventures of finding true love.
Eliza Sommers is an orphan who is adopted by Rose Sommers and her brother Jeremy, who are English but who live in Chile.  She is never sure of her origins, but is well cared for by Rose, although Jeremy remains a distant male figure.  She grows up and falls in love with a man who later leaves for California to make his fortune in the gold fields.  The romantic young Eliza manages to hide on a sailing ship, with the help of her Chinese friend Tao Chi'en, and pursues her lover to California.  She endures incredible hardship and even masquerades as a male in order to fend off the lonely men who are seeking gold.  Eventually Tao and Eliza's true destinies become clear to them and they head in a direction they would never have considered.  This book is generally a good read, although the plot is somewhat disjointed and the ending is weak.
love narnia!
Classic. Even my 6 year old daughter has enjoyed it. She is hearing the audible version & loves the narration.
The book takes a long time to get on its feet, but when it did I couldn't put it down. I loved how you follow around the main character and you go into other people's pasts. And the many plot twists that Allende throws at you make the book so much more interesting to read. Also, all the characters seem three dimensional because there's so much amazing depth to them.  I was rather disapointed with the ending though. A bunch of random things happened, and then the book ended. Despite that, Daughter of Fortune still gets a great review from me, and I plan on reading more books by her in the future.
I enjoyed both the story in this book and its historical detail. It is an enjoyable read. The charactors are diverse, the settings rich, and the love story realistic.  The only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is because the ending is uninteresting. It's one of those endings that makes you feel like the author just wanted to be done with it, or was, perhaps, on top of a deadline, so she justs ended it.
I bought this book because I had just attended a lecture about the religious implications of :Lewis' Narnia Chronicles.  I had seen the movies and the TV series but had never read the books and, frankly, the religious implications had escaped me.  Of course when I read this book Aslan's being an allegory to Jesus Christ was so obvious as were other hints here and there.  It is a children's book supposedly but, except for its being a morality tale, I can't imagine a child getting the religious part.  I am now reading what was the actual first in the series of fantastical books  ( The Magician's Nephew)  and I am enjoying it also.
In reviewing "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe", what else can I say that hasn't already been said about this classic book?  After hearing so much about the book from friends my whole life, I'm now happy to say I've read it. No, it's not a favorite (fantasy isn't what I most enjoy reading). But I do like the analogy of how it sheds light on the Christian life. (Although I'm still confused on how Santa Clause fits into the picture?)  For me, it was an interesting read and I do plan to continue with the Narnia series and see where else it takes me.
I enjoyed this book. The biggest weakness, in my opinion, is that there is quite a lot of setup and backstory to read that covers many different characters before the plot really gets going. As a reader, I occasionally found it offputting to read the pages and pages of backstory without having many hints as to why I was being told this information. However, once the story got going, I was capitvated. I was hoping for more resolution for several of the characters, though.
Came just as described - very happy!
I bought this to read to my three year old daughter. I'm reading it to her a second time now. :)
Read this book to two 6 year olds!  They loved it.  Had to explain definition of some words,  but overall they understood the plot and really enjoyed it!
The book was grasping and very well written. Although I did not find it very interesting when I started the book but the more I read it I realized I could not keep the book down. I liked the fact that it did not end expectedly but let us speculate. The book also had a great flow. Good read.
my second hunter s. thompson book.  i really enjoy his writing style.
Great writing from an era long gone. Good book to start with if you are interested in Hunter S. Thompson. Very entertaining.
Good read! Not for the faint of heart!
Reading the books for the first time since the movies came out, I was incredibly impressed with how close the movies stuck to the book. Most of the changes were updates to the dialogue and a minor change to the script. There were few problems with the morals presented in the first book, my main gripe being the message he was sending to his grand daughter - the "Battles are ugly when girls fight them." But I suppose we shouldn't hold a book written by a man in the 50s to the same standard of books today.  As a fiction novel, I enjoyed the books but they were scattered and written in a style that relied on a lot of self insert narration. The story is an interesting one, though the messages within are problematic and a little old fashioned.
Do not be dissuaded from reading this book because some may say that it is not the authors' best. It is an extremely well written and entertaining story. It will provide you with hours of adventure as well as fascinating information about the customs and culture of Chile and Northern California in the mid 1800's. It is bright and creative. Read it!
This is one of the few un-put-down-able books I have read with a historic setting. In the Daughter of Fortune, I found a very interesting perspective to several ideas. The gold rush, the Chinese, the Chileans, the British, the 49ers ... these were talked about in a very discriptive yet thought-provoking manner. The book centers around a woman but is not soppy by any means. Definately a book that I would recommend to anyone who likes to read about women.
Good story and writing.  Good for younger youth to read.  Thanks.
WORTH A READ.  NICE TO HAVE ON HAND, WHEN NEEDED.
This sweeping tale is full of adventure.  Allende manages to once again write an engrossing novel featuring strong female characters overcoming obstacles and hardship.  She writes richly about the hardships of immigrants seeking gold and a better life in California.  Her descriptions of missionaries and British businessmen in South America clearly comment on the disparity of lifestyle betweent the employers and the employed, the white and the dark.  Allende's novels tend to be fantastic, requiring suspension of disbelief on the part of the reader.  Suspend that disbelief and dive in!
Years ago, we read Narnia to our children. Its been a while, but as we noted then: the inside of these stories seems bigger than the outside. C.S. Lewis has a way of putting all his intellect and training into the construction of stories that make simple, ethical goodness a life altering power, and as Narnia makes clear, the power is within reach of the youngest child. The interplay of characters in The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe always brings us in touch with the magic that operates in each of our lives, even here, even now. The possibilities hinge on each of our decisions every day. Too often we for get our own magic as human beings. Narnia brings us home.
Great children and early teen book
Isabel Allende's Daughter of Fortune is a tale of love and deception, a deception that is often self-imposed. Perhaps its greatest strength are the gastronomic and herbalist details that Allende, with her charteristic style, blends together to make a potent concoction for the reader. Although it masquerades as a tale of adventure it is truly a tale of self-discovery. Those who are fans of Allende will find that this book does not disapoint. Personally I felt that the development of the characters in the begining of the novel was far more complete than the truncated final chapters that lacked depth. Therefore I could not give it the maximum 5 stars. Nonetheless, it is an interesting read and one worth purchasing (on sale, if possible).
Why does this book leave you wanting more?  Because the ending is so unsatisfyingly and startlingly sudden!  After several hundred pages of building a wonderful plot and the characters, it is always a surprise to me when an author chooses to quit writing the book at the pentultimate chapter. Beyond that though (after all, you must be asking yourself why I rated this book four stars?!), Allende has given us an incredibly complex heroine in Eliza Sommers, who is faced with a pretty unique challenge:  Here is a woman who was raised to think and act like an upper-middle-class caucasian lady in Chile in the late 1800's, and she is suddenly, due to some unfortunate choices and decisions, a single, ethnic, immigrant girl in Gold Rush California.  This book gives the reader some fascinating peaks into several different cultures, including Chilean, Chinese, and, of course, American (whatever that it!).  I would recommend this book very highly.  Just be prepared for that disappointingly quick ending.
Allende once more has captured my imagination and taught me lessons in culture and history without my even knowing it. The characters are deep and wide as the vistas she paints of early California during the goldrush. My only complaint about the book was the abrupt ending. A sequel coming? The editor called and said "get me thoses last pages or else!?" Either way it was a bit unfair to end the story so  suddenly.
beautiful story,  is inevitable to see in Aslan a figure 8f Christ. This is the first children's book I read from Lewis, and I love it, looking forward to read the other 6.
This is my first foray into Hunter S. Thompson.  It was an unexpectedly good read.  Thompson's research appears to be thorough and his views clear as he unravels the enigma of the Angels.  Although the actual reading is enjoyable, sometime after the halfway point the book does become somewhat tedious and even a little cyclical, as the same points are addressed over and over in slightly different contexts.  But he brings it all back home towards the end, offering timeless insight into a particular type of people that modern society just may be forgetting.  Even though it was written fifty years ago, much of what it has to say can be applied to our lives today, at least in trying to understand what appears to be impossible to understand.  I will definitely be reading his other works.
I came to this book via Susan McWilliams Dec 15, 2016 article in The Nation,  "This Political Theorist Predicted the Rise of Trumpism. His Name Was Hunter S. Thompson." In it, she posits that Thompson intimately portrays the sort of self-destructive nihilism that rises among those whom the economy and society have cast aside - those who find "the game" completely rigged against them. All of that is there, and, for good measure, Thompson also skewers lemming-like media hype, the over-reaction, strategic conflation, and exaggeration of some law enforcement agencies, and the cluelessness of a doe-eyed public. Beyond this seeming prescience (more like "the more things change, the more they stay the same"), it is a good, ugly read.
The content of this book is very similar to other 'survival' books out there.  That being said, it is good.  Be forewarned, the author is very 'British' in his views toward firearms, that is, he is against civilians having them.
From the beginning I was amazed with this book. The small details and passionate way tha Allende incorporates really shine. The book however starts to weaken after Eliza arrives in California. Her adventures with Tao Chi'en are fascinating and his character is very interesting. Eliza's story is really amazing. ALlende does nto finish teh book. We never know waht happened!! Maybe teh sequal will explain it all! I think it was a great idea, the nvoel and it has taught me a lot about the history, but just has me hanging on a hook! i do recommend it though for the good qualities I have listed!
Eliza Sommers grew up as an orphan in Valparaiso, Chile.  She ws raised by Miss Rose, a spinster and her cold, hard brother Jeremy.  Eliza follows her lover and journeys to California during the 1849 Gold Rush.  Eliza's experience starts her on a journey of transformation.  In her new world, Eliza discovers independence, freedom, and love.   This is one of the best books I've ever read.  It touches the heart in every way.
This is the first book I have ever read from Isabel Allende and I must confess I was positively impressed.  I really enjoyed the book and was able to follow the plot all the way through. The main character, Eliza, is easy to fall in love with and follow her passion and her desperation and later her new discovery. The settings are so full of life you can almost feel as if you are living in 19th century Chile and later an early settler in California.  You can sympathize with the chinese and how other races were so badly treated during the gold rush. It is a book that has everything, interesting characters, a great plot easy to follow and wonderful settings.
I highly recommend this book to anyone that lives in the San Francisco Bay Area or is interested in the area. Also recommended for those who like to read about other women making their way in the world in the 1800's without relying on a man (this is an unusual thing for that time period). The story follows a young orphaned girl, Eliza Sommers, from her upbringing in an upper-class British home (transplanted in Valparaiso Chile) to her striking out on her own to follow her lover into the San Francisco gold rush in 1849. The character development in the first half of the novel is great, with emphasis on Eliza's relationships with her "adoptive mothers" Miss Rose and Mama Fresia. I really started to enjoy the novel when the story arrived in California, as I have traveled to many of the places listed in the story. I have read many of Oprah's picks, and find this one the least schmaltzy of all of them (yes, I really did say schmaltzy). This is not your typical "girl overcomes adversity" story that Oprah usually picks.
I loved it (the whole series), my kids loved it, and now my granddaughters loved it. :)
Probably should have looked at the dimension size before ordering. Will be useful in emergency situation but fall to small for casual reading.
Book is 34 other than that its a good book I must have missed the description of the size of the book.
My love of this book comes less from the story, captivating though it may be, but from the wonderful setting the story takes place in. Allende is phenomenal at bringing Gold Rush California to life.  The book's main characters are immigrants in the period, and their experiences provide a vibrant insight into what life may have been like in this exciting, yet tumultuous, period. The story also provides great insights for one's own life (as all good stories do).  It's captivating to see the tremendous life experiences that a person goes through for the sake of passion, only to discover that the end she was chasing is less impressive than the journey her passions took her along. A great book...
Very entertaining, very well written - actually had a hard time putting the book down. (Haven't had that experience in a while.) But then I turned the page...and it was over!? It was almost as if some editor or publisher somewhere said: "Okay, it's getting too long...let's just end it here." I would definitely suggest it to anyone, but prepare yourself for feeling as if you want to write more at the end to finish the story.
This is an epic story which uses the typical Allende style of twists,turning the world on its head and maagic suprise. It is errotic and exciting. There is a generous humanity which fills this big plot and leaves you feeling refreshed in spite of all the tragedy.
early hunter.  good historical piece.
This is a great book, esp. for Allende fans. I've read almost all of her books, all but one I think. I love the way she tells story. She and Amy Tan are similar in their writing styles.
I enjoy reading Isabel Allende!  Have enjoyed other books by this author and would read her without Oprah's "OK"!  But this book was not the same caliber as some of the others (House of Sprits) and I was a little disappointed  in the characters and plot.  I felt as if something were being left out or that I was missing something.  Usually, I feel very satisfied by Allende's stories but this one left me wanting to pull more out of the book.  I still give it 4 stars, if only to encourage others to read more of this author.
I never read this series myself though my daughter did and enjoyed it.  It's one of the recommended reading for my oldest granddaughter's summer reading too!
i read the book to pass time and found myself finishing it in one sitting. Although some of the writing was redundant and obviously meant for a younger crowd, it was quite pleasant to read again as an adult. Not only that, I enjoyed making the comparisons to the film. I found it fascinating discovering which lines were chosen and given to different characters, how prominent Mr. Tummnus was in the film and not so much in the book.  The subtle things like those intrigued me.  I`m looking forward to downloading the other books.
The inside story of the Hells Angels at their inception by HST hanging, riding and drinking with them.  Makes it much easier to understand how they began, how the media created a personna for them that they felt compelled to live up to.
Sometimes self-indulgent, as Thompson often is.  A fascinating look at the roots of outlaw clubs.  Maybe even a hint of warning for wannabes.
Isabel Allende, strikes an immediate chord to a family 'putting on airs' yet, within the house having its problems. It hit home for me and will most likely hit home for many others because we know of families that seem perfect.... and often we find out much later what was truly happening.
This was the first book by the author that I had read.  She is a gifted writer who really hooks the reader early.  I loved reading it but I wasn't thrilled with the ending.  It was as though the author should have wrote "...to be continued" after the conclusion.  I have read 2 more books by Isabel Allende and so far House of Spirits is my favorite.  I recommend that one to everyone I know--I have even given it as a Christmas gift.
This novel was a great middle grade novel and was better than the Magician's Nephew.  I loved the fantasy elements in this book.  This series is filled with wonderful Christian allegories!  I cannot wait to read the rest of the series!
The Lion The Witch and the wardrobe was amazing. The only thing I would make similar with the movie was explaining that the queen" was wearing Aslands mane that she cut off.
Like it!
if you like books on bikers then you will enjoy this work.
I like the information included in the book, very useful, not a 5 stars because letters are to small I have problems to read small writings. I am over 45 and my sight its not the same, Pictures help but the info is the one that help to understand it all.
Be transported to the world of Eliza, a privileged young girl born in 19th century Chile who stows away on a ship to San Francisco in search of her lover who has gone to search for gold.  This was a wonderful book and I was hooked from the start.  Allende does not deliver obvious storylines - the book does not end how you think it will.  The locations and the love stories are fabulous too! There is more than one daughter of fortune in this story... I was entranced by Eliza and her tale and did not want it to end.  Thoroughly recommended.
This was an ambitious piece of work, that left me feeling glad I had read it, but slightly disappointed.  The main character was spiritful and well developed, but her mission in life was questionable.  Allende let us know from the beginning that Eliza's lover was really a bad guy, but it took too long for Eliza to come to that conclusion.  I liked the little surprises in the story, but what was truly fascinating was Eliza's role as a mute Chinaman.  The experience was greatly liberating and allowed her more freedoms than she would have ever guessed. Definitely a well thought out plot, and well written, but lacking that little extra something that takes a book to a higher level.
I bought this book just because - I knew it was suppose to be a kids book but it sounded interesting - it was.  Sparked imagination and also told good life beliefs.  Good and evil will always be part of our lives - like having good win.  Good book for all ages.
Lots of useful information packed into a very small book.
It is a guide as stated...........the reader will find facsinating tips on survival and probably will add many skills to most people reding it. I like that it is small enough to pack in aback pack too.
This should be in every survival bag and survivalists gear!!!!!!
Small, yet easy to read (for me. if you have poor vision it might be a problem) The table of contents is right up front and convenient. The pages, if not waterproof, are at least water resistant. Packed with information, most of which you'll never need, but it's still cool to read about! The information contained in this book is all summarized; it's NOT an ultra detailed step-by-step guide to build heirloom tools and shelters, but a down and dirty guide to get you through many situations.
I normally do not set out to read "Oprah's Book Club" picks but I was intrigued to read a book about Chile because my sister-in-law is of Chilean descent. I enjoyed this book more than any other in quite a while,it has believable characters that are very well-written,especially Tao! I enjoyed the descriptions of of both 19th century Chile and the Gold Rush,better than the dry,boring textbooks of grade school. It does get a bit contrived at times,However I really recommend this book too,(with thanks to Oprah..!)
This was such an entertaining book with interesting characters.  Even  though it's a love story so much more is going on that it keeps you turning  the pages.  I've never heard of this author before but I do recommend this  book for summer reading.
Interesting read.
I like tacos.
I thought it was a great book. There is a lot of expression. I really like C. S. Lewis`s taste in the book series.
I have not read this book completely, but so far I think it is well written and has plenty useful information. Some of the other similar books I have read were hit and miss on the info and didn't really have real life situations in mind.
This was my first audio book.  I have a long commute, and it was a break from music.  I picked this book mainly because of the subject matter which I'm familiar.
This made for an excellent bedtime book for my three year old daughter. We were able to make connections and talk about many of the themes from this book.
It was excellent and fun to read so I give it a 4 out of 5 I would definitely recommend this book!
It was pretty good... It took me a long time,though. Otherwise, maybe. wHy wonT it sUbmIt! STOP THESE GAMES!!! Seriosly!
good
Thompson's style of writing is very easy to read. This book contains some good "boots on the ground" experiences along with references to historical documents (The Lynch Report). If you are interested the the Outlaw Bike scene at all, this offers a reasonably unbiased look at the Angels from a civilian that walked among their ranks.
I have enjoyed Isabel Allende's previouse works and was once again pleased  with Daughter of Fortune.  I thoroughly enjoyed Eliza Sommers journey.  While some reviewers have expressed frustration with the ending, I felt it  was logical and satisfactory.  I would love to see a sequel where Miss Rose  joins brother John for a new life in California, leaving Jeremy in Chile.  Such strong female characters..I loved them all and would enjoying reading  more about them.
This is a breath-taking tale of a baby girl left in a basket, on the doorsteps of a British Import and Export Company.  We follow her life and the pursuit of her destiny.  This drama takes us  from Valparaiso, Chile to  gold-rush fever in California.  "Daughter of Fortune" might well  be called "Daughter of Adventure".  This book is heavy laden with  detailed violence, betrayal, agony and love.  It is a journey of  transformation.  Isabel Allende's grasp of history and her infusion of it  in this story far exceeds her previous writings.  Sometimes the  detail and  multiple perspectives and viewpoints of characters get in the way of plot  continuity for the reader, but over-all this book is a passionate  masterpiece.
useful information.
Great read, looking forward to trying out some of what I learned.  Small so you may need a fresnel lens to read.  But, you can keep it in your survival or emergency kit if you want too.
HST, what else can you say?  The book came in great condition despite being from the Goodwill.  I loved finding it in Paperback.  The only downside was that there was a very old label stuck over the cover and I didn't get all of the residue off. Aside from that, great!
good stuff
A very good read.
Skull crushingly good.
Allende's Daughter of Fortune traces the life of a young girl born an orphan but raised by a rich Chilean family with whom she finds love and training but not true contentment.  Eliza's adoptive family teach her how  to be a young lady, dress her beautifully and even produce an impressive  dowry for her, yet they ultimately neglect her soul.  When a young man  employed by her uncle named Joaquin shows up at her home one day, she finds  herself a true victim of love at first sight.  She begins to exist solely  in the hope that she might see him again and a vigorous affair ensues.  When Joaquin announces that he intends to go to California, Eliza follows a  month after his departure.  There she searches for him for over three years  under disguise.  Allend portrays her difficulties as she pursues her lover  and the woman she becomes as a result.  Although somewhat unrealistic at  times, Daughter of Fortune is a well-written, gripping book.
I've read other books by Isabel Allende and although this one is not my favorite I really enjoyed it. It is really interesting to understand how Callifornia developed after it became a US territory and how so many different cultures came together to build the city of San Francisco and the  bay area. Also important to bring out is that in only one book you are able  to learn about four different cultures and a specific point in time. Last  but not least, what I didn't like was the reasons and desicions of some of  the characters (after all, I don't have to agree)
It was good, I guess. The part where they had dinner with the beavers was very descriptive and made me hungry as ever, so I made myself a PBJ.
I chose this rating because it just deserved it. I would recommend this to any one who likes battle or mysterys
Great buy.  Lots of great info in a compact size.
Awesome book! Corners and dust jacket damaged.
Hunter S. Thompson was a radical journalist who did some crazy things.  Coming from a biker background I enjoyed this story from Hunter's younger days and the early days of the Hells Angels.
Great read thoroughly enjoyed it
This story was an enjoyable one.  The main character begins life with many strikes against her.  She seems to go through life as a careful observer, but when she decides to partake in life, makes several bad choices, leading  to life changing situations.  It is her hitting rock-bottom and taking  charge of her own life, along with her good fortune in finding a strong  clear headed friend, that allow her to grow and mature into a very  responsible, caring, intelligent person. I really liked the way this novel  ended, no spoon feeding the reader a sappy, happily ever-after end, but  allowing the reader to really think about the characters and their possible  future(s).  Our book club, (Bunny's Book Club) discussed the different  versions of endings we had come up with, and there were several  possibilities. Each had merit and everyone enjoyed this novel.  The  overviews of Chilean and Goldrush life were enjoyable.  The racial and  ethnic clashes were openly pictured.  The portrayal of the media as giving  the people what they want, true or not, was interesting and as true today  as it appeared then.  While some of the characters could have been  fleshed out a bit more, this does not detract from this wonderful story.
Learned a lot from this book.  Greatly enjoy the detailed explanations.
It's been years since I first read this book and now on a second reading, it's just as good as I remember. There is plenty of analogies relating to Christian theology. This is a fun book that can be read in one sitting.
They should make this into a movie. Pretty graphic account of the Hells Angels back in the day.  I doubt the modern day Angels resemble their 60's counterparts.
Not what I had hoped for much less expected.  Pretty much an extended magazine article without much in the way of creative writing.  Or significant interest notwithstanding what should have been an interesting subject.  I'll still give it four stars because there was enough there to get me through it.
I really liked this book.  I was kind of disappointed by the ending, but you can't have everything!  I love the in-depth description and the back story so that you understood the characters and why they were the way they were.  I recommend this book to anyone looking for a summer read.  I'd like  to find it on tape, so that I had a copy for my car.
i loved the characters the plot was great and it gave me thrills i suggest for readers 9 and up its a awesome  book to read if you love adventure and fun  thax 4 reading
Great information!
Very well written. Bought because i'm a fan of SOA.
This was a great work in reporting, yes, but I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 because of its age. It is not very relevant anymore, but that makes it a good account of the history of the Angels, which is worth reading.
In my opinion this volume of C.S. Lewis's Narnia is the basis for 'Polar'.  A classic read for all to enjoy.
Hope you can read it some time it really is good about Lucy and Edmund and Susan last but not least Peter and their a amazing adventure. And I really think it is good.
Can't wait to read the next book. Mt kids are excited as well! Good book to read to first graders..
When I read the first line of "Daughter of Fortune" I had no qualms weather I should buy it or not. She describes the Anglo-saxon world, South American world and Chinese world with such vivacity it feels as  though she is actually writing an autobiography. The variation of moods  present in the novel ensure excitment, and a sense of guilt came over me  when ever I put it down. My first Isabelle Allende, I will now read her  earlier works with dedication. In short it's a book I thoroughly recomend,  and wish there where more like them.
Daughter of Fortune was a magical book.  While it lacked the depth and spirituality of some of Allende's other works, it was a wonderfully executed novel.  The characters she created were alive and real.  They had depth, and behaved in a way that reflected their time and their  circumstances brilliantly.  While undoubtedly a romance, this in no way  detracts from the quality of Allende's prose or the quality of the book as  a whole.
Excellent book.
This is the first HST I've ever read. Having grown up with bikers of an outlaw persuasion, it was interesting to read from an outside perspective. Would definitely recommend!
My favorite quality of a Hunter Thompson piece is his uncanny knack to boil topics down to their essence. In this strange saga full of wildly unsettling tales of rape and brutality, Thompson gets to the heart if the Angels ethos and the larger counter culture they unfortunately represent.
My third grader was so attracted by the story. Her teacher uses the book for one of the reading and writing in response both in class and home work assignment.
This book was excellent in my opinion.  The main character goes through so many life stages and heartaches, yet comes out triumphant in her own way -- yet, not in the way she planned.  A fabulous look at the way society was  then -- only the acceptable people are "acceptable."  A Great  Book!
Book wasn't exactly what I was expecting but I learned some new things! Worth the money.
This book offers a sincere account of motorcycle outlaw's life. The writing is clear and at times poetic, sometimes a direct account and sometimes analytic. Although by the end it feels like retreading what's already been said, on the whole I learned a lot from the book and I don't regret picking it up.
Although I'm not certain how much Hunter S. Thompson really knows about the H.A.'s, the book was definitely entertaining.
The storytelling of this book is excellent.  Though it is not my favorite book of Allende's it is certainly a large cut above much of the 'literature' currently being written.  The interactions of time, hertiage,  mind, and setting are intriguing and beautifully written.  I have to  wonder, though, if Allende intends for this to be the first book in a  series.  Not all of her web seems finished.  I would love to see a second  volume if Allende can write it with as much sensitivity and skill as she  has written this one.
I did enjoy this book, however, I was disappointed in the ending.  If you are an Allende fan, it's worth a read, but it's not House of Spirits.
At the core, this book identifies the realistic differences between talkers and doers in life.  For those who already know that difference, this is an interesting story from some very strange times in the history of the US.  HST was lucky enough to survive and document (very artfully and articulately) some of these events, do not pass up the chance to embrace these efforts.
Hi, The story is great and the characters have an intense life story. The book was Wonderfully written , but there are more events that should have been  completed. Hi  Isabel...Do you intend to write a sequel ?
the survival bible, very compact, easy to fit into your bug out bag, good essential info, a must for Preppers... although it took almost 2 months to arrive
Looks good, but I won't read it until I need it, which hopefully will be never
Good book with insight to "Outlaw Bikers".  Interesting history notes with Ken Kesey and Alan Ginsberg.
Book is an honest reflection of the author's experiences and analogies on the outlaw gang as a unit and specific individuals. The authors insight is sometimes flattering but often times demeaning or possibly insulting if read by a club member. Reads like a documentary and always entertaining
As I was reading the book, I could just hear the accents of the characters. The book was wonderful and adventurous, but the accents gave me headaches.
This book was read to me in grade school, and I watched the old BBC productions.  I loved it.  I bought it this time to read to my kids, 5 and 8, who are a bit on the young side for the material.  I wanted to introduce them to fantasy books as well as read to them together.  They also enjoyed the book, but I found myself distracted by trying to explain some of the British-isms in terms that they could understand.
Great book, just very broad!  It would be great for someone just starting out.
good
As a young adult, I always had homework to do on weeknights. I would leave my bedroom door open so I could hear my mother reading this book to my younger sisters. I have a feeling that the movie spoiled the book for me, since I saw the movie on cable a year ago, and now I have the book. Plot has to do with siblings who find a doorway to another world by way of the back of a closet! As a young adult, C.S. Lewis was one of my favorite writers. Now I have it at my fingertips anytime I want.
Found this book gripping. Informative without being boring and exciting without feeling like fiction. Particularly his prose on what it feels like to be on the back of a motorcycle toward the end of the book was exceptional.
This is a classic book that shows some of the high times of a world renoun Motorcycle Club from back in the early days
This is a great intro to Hunter S. Thompson. Written before he became a legend in his own mind (actually the experiences documented here and the success of this book at the time is probably the starting point for Hunter's progressive narcissism, not that I am complaining... it made for great writing later on!).
Thompson is a good author, Good book for the time. Edgy, good storyline. Gotta remmber it was embellished but a good story. added to my Collection.
It was an enjoyable book, but I wonder just how much truth is within the pages. With it written back in the 60's so much has changed within the realm. I wonder how much is truth and how much is just plain fiction.
A good source of information
4 out of 5
This book begs to be rewritten. It was written at a time ('65 & "66) when the Oakland Chapter of the HAMC was little more then a group of "Wild and Crazy Guys" Since then "The Club" has become an organization to be reckoned with. Sonny Ralph Barger was instrumental in not only organizing the "Club" but the now familiar "Winged Death Head" was his design.  At one time it was the English Empire that " The Sun never set on "Now it is the HAMC that the Sun never sets on.  This book if anything will give the reader some insight into the history of this notorious outlaw band.
It has been a very long time since I read this book and I am glad it came back into print again Hunter Thompson has a way of writing that is real and not glamorized with imagination
The book was very informational, but they could've had some better quality photos of the plants or animals. All and all very good suggestion of survival skills. My only complaint is the shody photos.
didn't realize it was such a tiny book with tiny print but a good book none the less.
A timeless classic tale every young person should read. Before Harry Potter, there was Narnia with all of its symbolism & religious undertones.
I read this story chapter by chapter as a good night story to my 3 year old.  It is a wonderful story and she enjoyed it immensely.
Thompson comes from the head space of a journalist, and uses the prose of a novelist. The combination is incredible.
As one who lived in the East Bay during these times, I can attest to the veracity of the authors sense of them
Not Thompson's best book, but as an early effort it packs a great punch. Hunter was an accepted outsider by the cycle outlaws providing the inside scoop and a rare opportunity to see both sides of the sordid news stories. Sadly he left their better graces before Altamont as it would have been nice to get the full story on the Angels' participation there.
I have read about the Hell"s Angel"s during this time period and stories about Thompson"s time with the gang.  Thompson tells the stories from his point of view and does a great job.  Could not put it down,
Big Thanks!
Pretty entertaining and educational book
Ever since i read Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas years ago, i was hooked. This book is very informative and gives an insider look at life with the Hell's Angels, one of the most notorious biker clubs. Thompson debunks many myths fabricated by the media back in the sixties, in his own hilarious Hunter Thompson fashion. He manages to get his ass kicked at the end by a group of Angels'. If you've read Fear And Loathing and The Rum Diaries and you dug them, this is a must read.
It was a great book but I didn't care for all of the language but I know that it was a true book so you have to live with it or skip reading it. I chose to read it & I wasn't sorry that I did.
Fantastic read. Though I feel it may have been a bit biased in t he beginning in favor of the Angels.
It was light and funny and left me feeling good. Felt like it was suppose to be for children. I would't read the rest of the series baesd on this book.
English is not my first language so this book was good for me in that it strengthened some basic English language elements such as sentence structures and variations, vocabularies, and story telling. On top of that it was a good story. I had fun reading it and learning at the same time.
Splendid and beautiful story that reflects the love Christ had for us in willingly giving up His life for our sins so we may live. Fabulous C. S. Lewis!
Good read but a bit small :)
I haven't finished the content but the book came quickly and in excellent, brand new condition. I had amazon prime and would definitely recommend it
Not really the Hunter S Thompson of Fear and loathing fame.  Still a good book though.  I recommend it to fans of his other works.
A fascinating look into Americas first and most notorious outlaw motorcycle gang.highly recommended.possibly Hunter S Thompsons best work. Get it now!
Haven't read it yet but thumbing through it seems to have good stuff.
Other reviewers have covered in great detail the content and worthiness of this book.  I note that it is now in a 3rd edition. I didn't see much difference between the 1st and 2nd editions, and I wonder what is new (if anything) in this one.  Seems a bit of a shame the author didn't take a few pages to mention this in the introduction, to help owners of previous editions to determine if it is worth their hard-earned money to buy the new one, or stick with what they already have.
I bought one for a handful of family members. I suppose it is more fun than function but I think it has value.
Great, just very small... or I would have given it a 5 Star
Be aware..the book is small.. tough to read but fits easily in a pack or most pockets. The layout of the SAS Guide is easy to follow and crammed with information. If you want a general inclusive survival guide, this is it. If you want one specific to a certain area, you may want to purchase a more in-depth one.
Thompson is a great writer.  He immerses himself in this dark, exciting, dangerous world and crafts a story devoid of romanticism and packed with humor.  Read it as a teenager 35 years ago and it holds up wonderfully.
Five star rating I recommend this book for people who like the HARRY POTTER series, the Percy Jackson series, the kingdom keepers series,and the Kane chronicles or the Clarice bean series I enjoyed this book very much This book is magical and has excitement on every page I hope anyone else who reads this book enjoys it I did!
Very informative.
while a good book, it lacked the Gonzo style of journalism I expected from HST.  If you have read his later work you may be surprised
so far it is everything I wanted in book by Hunter. I have not finished the book yet but so far so good.
Lovely tale filled with sweetness. I particularly enjoyed spending time with Mr and Mrs Beaver and of course with Aslan. Of the children my favorite was Lucy. My second favorite was Edmund. If I were to offer any criticism I would say that the story ended a bit abruptly.
I only wish it could get wet, But is solid resource.
Amazing how relevant his points are to today's deteriorating society! Not nearly as shocking and drug raged as his others but a great insight into a  club who no one fears anymore.
The cover isn't lying when it says "a strange and terrible saga." While the beginning is pretty slow and it takes a bit of persistence to get through, there comes a point where the book grabs you and doesn't let go! It's like a train wreck... You'll be unable to look away and enthralled by this crazy world of sex, drugs and motorcycles.
It was interesting, but a little boring. I would request this  to my friend. It was a very nice book.
I read this book for school and I loved it.. It was a really nice book. I think it has some connections to Jesus life..
I read the entire series to my kids as they were growing up and now, traveling with my Kindle, I get to read the same stories to my grandkids; so much fun!
This book is In need of updating, correction & verification of certain information, and a thorough re-editing, which would transform it into a truly stellar (five-stellar?) survival guide.  As it is, it is still among the best of the available general survival guides that purport to cover a wide variety of environments and survival situations.  This Collins Gem edition, in particular, is outstanding for its compact size, durability, and paper and print quality, making it suitable to bring along in the field or pack into larger survival kits.  I wonder if the printers have ever thought of making an even smaller print edition, bundled or bound with a flat Fresnel magnifying lens as both a reading aid and a basic survival tool for fire starting, etc.?
This is not an earth-shattering book, but somehow Hunter's books got by me while I was in medical school, and I wanted to find out what this Gonzo journalism was all about.  It seems I made the wrong choice, since HT did not start the Gonzo business before he wrote this book.  (Being stubborn, I proceeded to order his Vegas book and got my answer.)  However, there's nothing wrong with his Hell's Angels work, except that at times it becomes boring.  Actually I think I found some Gonzoism in it, but apparently I wasn't supposed to.  He did place himself in the story, but not to the degree that his Kentucky Derby article did.  In fact, I could have stopped with the latter and would not have had to pay for two books.  But what the hell, I suppose his money goes somewhere, hopefully to the betterment of us all.
I like H.S.T, but it is sometimes hard to follow him. Only got lost a few times in this book.
I just finished reading the complete Chronicles of Narnia and thought this would be a good way to introduce my grandkids to Narnia. The storyline seems like it only hits the high points, but doesn't give much feeling and expression. Could be because I still have the Chronicles so fresh in my head. Beautiful drawings.
Its ok.
By no means the best book HST wrote... Still, it's essential reading for any fan as it was written by a younger, more serious and lucid Hunter Thompson - not the hilarious-dope-fiend-life-on-the-edge Thompson that we all grew to love.
I am a big fan of Thompson's "The Rum Diary" so I thought I would try this similarly early work.  It is interesting, especially if you're intrigued by Hell's Angels, motorcycles, or Pacific coast life in general.  I thought it reads a little slow, although the action parts are worth it.  I should have borrowed from the library, since I don't think I could get through it again, knowing how it ends.
I really think you should read this book because you don't know what will happen next it feels like it's 2 books in one
Really nice survival guide for anyone.  Practice makes perfect on so many items. Great size to put in your pack or carry in your car.
I order this book for my grandson and the audio book so he can read and listen at the some time
If your not a pretty big HST fan, a fan of journalism, or interested in the MC (motorcycle club) culture I wouldn't recommend this book. Admittedly I give this book 4-stars because Thompson wrote it, and as an aspiring journalist I enjoy reading his style. As the title of my review suggests it reads like a newspaper article. Thompson gives facts and makes many references to events occurring during the time period. This limits the book as a period piece. There are parts where you can really see HST's talent as a writer, but its not every page, not even every other. If you haven't read Thompson before don't make this your first read of his work. Start with Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. If you like it consider going to Hell's Angels, but this book is not for everyone.
Good information, book degrades quickly though.
Really amazing book, although for once, I liked the movie adaption more simply because of more action. It's also my favorite of the 7 Narnia books.
I give this book a 4. I loved the hole book. I never wanted to stop reading it. This was the best book I read.
Great book.  It's small but heavy, and there's almost too many environments.  They should break it up into three smaller books based on temperature.
it's worth the $6 or so I spent on it, but it's a fairly bare-bones instructional guide.  Given its target audience, the wide range of environments it covers is appropriate I guess.  I'm just not sure I'll ever need to know about seal blubber in the arctic.  I did pick up some things I hadn't read before, so it was worth the money.  I do like the small size so I can carry it when I'm out in the woods without much added weight.
I was probably expecting too much from this book. It does cover a lot of territory. A good read.
In depth report of the infamous motorcycle gang by the only person with enough gall and wit to pull it off; Hunter S. Thompson. Excellent correspondence of what the Hell's Angels stood for in their prime. If you enjoy learning about the brutality humans are capable of then this is a book for you.
Always try to find something to keep him busy, problem is he keeps telling me about the stories he reads! Not part of the plan but he enjoys it. MsStretch
How do you come up with this? Enter a closet and you are in a new land... Found that have you in for tea.  MARVELOUS.
Good read.
I have repeatedly watch all the Narnia movies and never tire of them, now I can  also enjoy all the books as well as I have  recently purchased them for my Kindle fire. I love that those was a quick and easy read. I am following a suggested reading order recommended by another reader, so it's  on to "Prince Caspian" for  me now.
This was a very informative book.  Mixes the historical information of the Hell's Angels (and other motorcycle groups), with enough details of their activities to keep the reader interested.  Very descriptive, made you want to take a shower to wash all the grease and testosterone off you after each reading.  Captured the attitude of the times very well.  Couple parts where it got a little graphic, but rang true.  Would have liked to have had more recent information on the subject, but understand this book was written some time ago.  Seemed to be a very accurate depiction (balanced) on all sides; the motorcycle gangs, the attitudes of the general public and the authorities and how they interacted and were perceived.
It was a very easy summer reading book.i am not a fast reader at all. I got on the 7th chapter the first day!
I know this is a classic book but I've seen too many movie versions to truly enjoy the original writing. Read the book before watching any of the movies.
great book. It changed my view about Hells Angels. I didn't know much about them nor did I had any interst in geting to know them. But after I read it I was glad I did. I have more respect about for them they had some fun time back then and Hunter tells u all about it.
How the great Hunter Thompson survived the numerous tribal romps detailed in this novel is an astounding attestment to the author's adaptability despite his masculine and gonzo-eyed presence. While there is sure to be a hint of exagerration due to Thompson's Dali-like warped view of the content in front of his eyes, what he captures is sure entertaining and really transports the reader to that moment in time.  While not as saucy and subserviently humorous as some of his better tales, this two year existence on the road with one of the most dangerous sub-cultures to existent in 20th century Western Culture, is a delightful study. The character's images, personality, excursions, and lifestyle are greatly conveyed through the colorful descriptions of Thompson. In addition, the confusing disorganization and initial fragementation of each Angels group is described, with future recklessness and dissolution portended (i.e. Altamount). Cheers Hunter
This is early Hunter S. Thompson and already his own life is in such disarray that I wonder how much of his information can be trusted.  Nevertheless, he captures the relationship between "law and order" and the Hell's Angels in a way that no other has.  I have not read Sonny Barger's book but it is a must if one is to complete the picture.  Like most "outlaw" groups the Hell's Angels tend to see themselves in a certain almost heroic light.  Hunter captures how they saw themselves in the middle sixties or there abouts.  Barger admits much later that they have softened with time into something else (just not mainstream society).  The all for one and one for all attitude the Angels Supposedly espouse has always made me personally uneasy even when made available to me.  I have been more of an independent I suppose so Hunter's descriptions of the Hell's Angels psychology is enlightening to me although it is tempered with half truths.
As a senior in a reading class, I have had to read novels in my English class. i don't like reading but I chose this book because it loked very interesting. Well, i was right. This was a very good book.  It tells about the history of the Hell's Angels and about all the crimes they committed.  the hells angels own mostof the meth around the world. They pay a someone to make it then they sell it. they were bodygaurds for the rolling stones they don't take crap from anybody.  It is a very good book. If you lke excitment, you will like this book. Although the language is kind of bad i recomend this to 16 year old or higher. But other wise it is a good book.
Tiny little book.  Only reason for not a 5 star is that the color coded tabs are not color coded in mine, just plain text.
This is a good little book,with a lot of basic information in it.. not much detail.  But the book is TINY.  It's a pocket reference guide.  Probably good for reading while on a trip or such.  The information is very good and concise.. it's just that I don't see much of a need for a pocket guide.  If the poop hits the fan, you don't want to have to pull out your pocket survival guide and see what to do... you should have already read what to do.  And if you have already read what to do, it should probably be in a full sized book.  Still, it's got some great ideas and is nice to thumb through on your lunch break.
This is a very good book.  It has a very good story along with very artistic pictures and Ilustrations among other things.
It moves right along, has good character development and a good message. Well worth your time. C.S. Lewis has a well deserved reputation as a powerful, but subtle Christian author.
I would recommend this book to anyone looking for an easy book to read and a different depiction on Christianity.
I liked it,but it lacked a little detail. Read it anyways,because it is a good Bible-based series and it is very magical. Go Narnia!:)  (P.S.-is even good for ages 3-6!)
I love his style, its different, unique, I think its wonderful, this is a very enjoyable book.
Better than the movie-so glad I read it!!!! Can't wait to read the   Rest of th he books in the series!!!
Has a ton of info in a compact book. Easy to chunk this in a bag before a hike or going camping. I've not needed any of the emergency things yet, but it's good to have just in case. Do I already know what poison ivy looks like? Sure, but I don't know other parts. Also, everyone in your party may not know anything at all. It is rather small, so if you have a hard time reading small to regular print, this is not for you. I skimmed through it quickly, and then it was stolen by my 8 year old and he studies it everywhere we go. Good price, takes up little room in your bag, may save a life. It would also be good to have a copy in the glove box especially if the driver is young or not experienced with the outdoors. You never know when something will happen.
This is a fun read, with more info on biker gangs than you probably wanted to know.  Generally considered a classic within most HST fan circles.  I really like it.
Hunter gets inside the mind set of not only a biker gang mentality, but the mentality of the rabid news media and the hyped up public it panders to. Great documentary on the country shortly before Hollywood got addicted to the biker craze (when Easy Rider would hit the big time.) More straightforward and less deranged than Thompson's later classix, this is a nice place to begin before he went truly gonzo insane.
I haven't finished it yet and I am engrossed with the fantasy of going into a wardrobe and finding all these creatures that are fun to read about.
We liked this book because it was adventurous, scarey, funny and the people were brave. We liked all the characters even the witch a little bit! We loved the lion the most.
This was a fun read. It had ideas for stuff I would have never thought of.
Very interesting read and full of good info.  I am enjoying the read and looking forward to trying out the camp craft at summer camping trips.  Some of the medical info is not up to date, id recommend double checking it with mayo clinic or web MD websites.
Wonderful read prvides an inight into the characters that the movie could never create. It is an older book and brtish in reference but a wonderful book to share with your children or the child within.
I really enjoyed this book. The e-book copy I read was full of typos and grammatical errors, but not so many that I couldn't read it. I would recommend this for the young and the young at heart.
Chock full of information - I like it The only surprise for me was how small the print is - I didn't read product size  I doubt you'll refer to this @ campsite by campfire  No regrets, greg
This turned out to be a very interesting book. The author was a rider with the Hell's Angel for a short duration. He was able to relate his time as an angel into a very readable book. This writing tells of the partying,drinking,and drugs that make up the everyday life of being a member of the Hell's Angels. Hunter is also able to show the dangerous sides of being part of this notorious group. After reading this book and hearing Thompson's experiences you will know that he went to great lengths to bring this story. All in all a very exciting and readable story. Read it you will be greatly entertained.
This was HST's first book after doing free lance journalism almost  everywhere.  It does not have his wit and style of his later works, but  still offers insight and his interpretations of everything.  How many  writers, authors, and journalists would actually hang out with this group  of "bikers" for a year?  He did and lived to tell about it  (barely), but some of it is redundant.  It is not a bad book and HST's  account of this year of his life makes for good reading and you don't want  to put it down, because you want to know what happens next.
I am sorry, but C.S. Lewis is awesome, it's just that I am very sensitive to anything that has any kind of witch type of element in it, or anything that parallels occultic stuff, so I put the book away after starting to read.  Not that it doesn't compel you to read - it does, because he is such a good writer.  See, I am involved in healing a deliverance, so I deal with the demonic, so I am very careful with things that might have that element.  I am not saying I don't recommend it at all.  I definitely think this is the perfect alternative to Harry Potter.
wish I would have seen the travel sized one first!
More of a compilation  than a revalation
There isn't much here to learn about the Hell's Angels if you're already familiar with them.  If you're not familiar with them, and you want to learn about them, just about any other Hell's Angels book will tell you as much.  The difference is in the storyteller.  Gonzo journalist Hunter S.  Thompson.  Usually when you read or hear something like this, you're told  by some raving pompous reporter, reminiscent of Robert Downey Jr.'s  character in Natural Born Killers who tries to hit hard and scare you.  Thompson plays it cool with his usual wit and insight.  That's what makes  this book worth a read.  Thompson understood the Hell's Angels.  He road  with them, made friends.  From Thompson, you always read the truth in its  truest form you can read.  What he found through his adventures with them  made for what was indeed a strange and terrible saga.
The reviewers that gave this book a negative spin really missed the boat. The book is not a sensatonalized account as "Fear and Loathing", is it is a record, and a great one at that,of Hunter's time spent with  these modern outlaws. It is informative, shocking, and very entertaining.
Having already seen the movie, I found the book a bit different. The book doesn't give a great of detail for some of the creatures whereas the movie does. Otherwise, I really enjoyed the book and can't wait to read the next one in the series.
I've read this book a hundred times. Always a great read and it always brings me back to my childhood. Can't go wrong with the Chronicles of Narnia!
Cute small book with so much information.  I have yet to finish it.
Nice, handy guide. received quickly, in good condition!
good book well written loved it i coudnt put it down until i read it all i really liked it
Great tips and recommendations!  Great tool to help you build your BUG OUT BAGS!
There is a lot of information to digest, even practice. There are a lot of photos, even some color photos when it comes to plants, fungi and dangerous animals/insects. The book covers more than one area of the world and helps a person prepare for long term survival (think "Wilson!").For example, as someone who needs practice making fire, I thought that there should have been more information on fire making; however, there is plenty of information of types of fire (windshields, making fires in the snow, etc). Vaseline makes for great inexpensive "fuel" to tinder (Douse cotton balls/paper - something that I learned from the web, not the book). This is a book that I got way more than what I paid for, and with his SAS expertise, something that can continue to learn from and improve in skills needed for emergencies in the wild (what I intended to buy this book for).
Small enough to fit in a ziplock bag and use as a survival reference on camping trips or the dreaded SHTF scenarios (hopefully you'll never need it for that). The book is great, but I'll let you look at other reviews about its content. I'm going to talk about the book itself. As I mentioned, it is compact, but it also has thick pages that are semi-glossed. This means that it will take more to damage this book with water. It is not waterproof, but definitely more water resistant than other books.
The book is fine.  Thank you.  I have tried to contact you.  When I ordered the two books, I also ordered a needle point stitching type book.  But the screen said, "order now", and did not take me through the usual checkout screens.  It also did not recognize one of the books I had already placed in the cart. The checkout screen included no payment card information.  When I choose credit card and then order, the ordering process was supposedly completed.  Then within the minute, I received a response asking me for the correct credit card information.  I confirmed and become somewhat Leary about the order.  So I waited.  I received the other two books that I ordered the usual way but have yet to receive the other book.  I  have not taken the time to see if payment was taken from my account.  That is on my to-do list.  Hope you can figure that out.  Have a good day.  Kelly geva
As Lucy stepps into the wardrobe, she steps into another world...  Four children, Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy find themselves in a different world. The remarkable adventures they have as they are there are breath-taking. The movie is good too.  The analogy to God dying for us is beautiful.
Over all I'm very pleased with this book. Hence the 4 stars. I'm a huge fan of CS Lewis and the Chronicles of Narnia series. So I wanted a picture book to introduce my children to the story.  Yet, I suppose like any translation of something dear to your heart it never fully lives up to your expectations. This picture book is short and glosses over much of the story, but what was I expecting? If you want the entire story by the novel.  The art is good and the translation of the text is good. Not amazing. But good.
I read this out loud to my kids (5, 4 & 1) and they enjoyed it.  The descriptive sections often lost them but they seemed to understand the overal story and definitely fell in love with the characters.  We then followed it up with the movie from Disney.  Also good, but they portrayed Susan very poorly compared with how she was in the book.
Great tool.
Most of the information is good, some is for areas of the country or world that I'll never see, but was interesting information.  The book is well written and has many great ideas, also covers how not to be a Rambo and get into trouble.
When I was a teenager, I loved this book. It's not standard for Christie, no, but it had such a wonderful feeling of hidden menace, and a larger world just beyond the reader's sight. Stafford Nye was extremely likeable; I wish Christie had written more about him.  I always felt that the book was an abridged version of what it should have been, but it triggered my imagination in such a way that I'll always be fond of it.
"It is a great book " my daughter loved it very much. She loved the part when Lucy first went thru the wardrobe into magical kingdm of Narnia.
I really enjoyed it! The story hit home in many ways and kept me interested all the way through. Wow
Great book, but..... Text is a bit small for my eyes. Thats why it got four stars and not five
Worth reading if you like to be out in bush camping or hiking.
I found this ebook brings alive the old story with colour and flare. I don't have any dislikes and in future, perhaps, hope to see schools using this product.
This classic is an enjoyable read.  My dyslexic students are motivated to read it. So I am rereading it.  I sure enjoy having it on the Kindle so when I am waiting I can easily access it.
I really liked this story and the plot was exceptional. The only thing that upset me was the sort of muddled ending. It felt rushed and hurried. She should have left the mystery open with no conclusion. That might have worked better. It was nice to see Mr Robinson again and his trail of money theories. If you don't expect the usual murder mystery, jump into this on different terms and enjoy the excellent narrative style and as usual, the more than fascinating characters. That grotesque Charlotte woman was a real kick in the pants
Although I didn't read this edition, I would have to imagine that from a previous review, this would sum it up in a  This book was one that paralleled with Christian beliefs from a fictional perspective. Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy were sent away to a professor's house in England during a time of war.  One day a simple game of hide and go seek found them in an adventure in a world called Narnia where through an evil queen (Satan like) made it always winter. However through the union of the children (Sons and Daughters of Eve) and Aslan (a portrayal of GOD and Jesus), they have the ability to conquer evil,and restore peace to Narnia.  To find out more, read to see what trials and tribulations the children face throughout their journey to save Narnia and restore peace.
a lot of good info in here!
Good book.  There's nothing in there about how to charge my cell phone or make the espresso machine work, so I only gave it 4 stars (for lack of a real perspective, because without those two things I will want to die).
This book is great for kids to read from about Grade 3 and above.  It can also be read to younger children.  After reading the book watching one of the Narnia movies and comparing the two is a great comprehension activity.  It can also be used as a vocabulary comparison between the British English and the American English.
"The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe is a magical adventure about four children who go into a wardrobe and come out into the land of Narnia.  In Narnia it is always snowing and never Christmas!  The children meet many creatures.  They meet the evil White Witch who can turn creatures into stone, a faun, and Aslan, a lion who may save Narnia.  We liked the story because the characters had incredible adventures.  We loved that idea of getting to a magical land by going through a piece of furniture.  We especially liked that most of the animals could talk.  We also liked that ordinary children became kings and queens in Narnia.  Furthermore, the professor believes the children when they tell him that they have been to Narnia.  We thought most adults would not believe the children in this situation.  We thought the book had a great ending with the furious final battle.  In conclusion, we feel that children of all ages as well as adults will love this book!  If you have not read this book then we think you should buy it today!  Sincerely, Mr. S's Second Grade Class
Great book
Good book for each of your bug out bags.
lots of great information. also a ton of stupid / no-brainer information that just wastes words and space.  book is about 6 inches tall by about 1 1/2 inch thick. Probably could have gotten down to 1 inch thick if the idiot-proofing content was removed.  book is designed to be studied and memorized, but if the content was more concise and the construction was more rugged this would make a great field handbook.
This is a fantastic book. It takes you into a magical land that can only be created by one such as C.S. Lewis. There is never a dull moment which is good if you get bored with reading easily. However, there are a few downfalls. The book itself is relativley fast paced and sometimes the narrartion is a bit childish. All in all its a good read and a classic that nobody should ever miss out on.
I grew up on this series and it was what first introduced me to fantasy books, and started a long long love affair with the genre.  I've started reading them to my 9 year old daughter to see if I could spark the same love in her and she and I are both really enjoying them.  Certainly fairly simplistic in so many ways, but still a memorable and captivating story... still a little weird and creepy...and still so very magical.  Amazing stuff.
What a wealth of info but I was surprised how small it is, but that is a good thing as it easily fits into your bag.
Good info.  It is a pocket sized book.  So the ilistrations are limited.  Good for backpack.
The type is tiny so when I get my magnifier I can read it.
This book is so great! At first, I thought that Aslan was a human but then i relized that his lion characteristics told me that he is a lion. i recamend this book.
This is the book that kick started my own imagination and it is one of the best classics. I am getting this one so that I can start my kids on it.
Love it so far. Small and thus very easy to put in a backpack or a pocket. Not sure how they pages would hold up if they get wet, but aside from that it seems a very good purchase.
"Unexpected Blessing" is the fouth book in the Emma Harte series by Barbara Taylor Bradford. This book picks up in the summer of 2001, as Evan Hughes a newly discover relation of Emma Harte continues to get closer the Harte family as her own comes to England, while others members of the family are dealing with there own romantic relationship problems.  I did enjoy this book more than "Emma Secret" but I can't understand why Ms. Bradford keeps doing the flashback chapters, its seems to pull away from the story. Overall, this book was better than "Emma's Secret"  and a good read.
Great book it's a really good series I've enjoyed all the books this far
Traditional BTB novel about the Emma Harte and her family. Loved it.
I bought this as a gift for a "doomsdayer".  LOL! He loved it!
Dear All who read this...  I recently ordered this book, and was happy about the price.  I only spent $.01 on the book!  I think it is ironic that the shipping cost more than the book, but it was a lot cheaper than driving across the country to get it.  I love books.  For me, books are a life source.  I was going to rate this a 5 star purchase, but I wasn't fully satisfied.  When I bought the book, the discription said it was in excellent condition.  Well, I was not pleased to find that there was writing in the cover and on the page sides.  Plus, and I don't understand why, the company put a sticker on the cover that tore as I was trying to remove it.  You see, I collect books.  The set that this book belongs to is now complete, however, this book is slightly damaged and now defaced.  I am happy about having it, but I would have liked it to be free of writing and stickers.  Overall, the company who sent me the book is very professional and quick to reply.  They were friendly, and I didn't have to wait too long for the book.  I believe I got it in like 4 or 5 days.  So, that is why I only rated it with a 4.  However, I was happy with the company overall.  I will buy from them again.  Thanks, Sir Romeo Mango
Will be sorry when this series finishes
As usual Barbara has written an excellent sequel
interesting story. enjoyed her narration and description of relationship with her sister.
Really enjoyed first book of the series I read she brought you up to date with the characters and really enjoy. Am now reading her next book
For a few years, I tossed around the idea of reading this children's fantasy novel and finally took the plunge after hearing a speaker at our fellowship talk about it last month. Fiction is not my cup of tea, but if there is anyone who could give me a taste for it, C.S. Lewis would be the one. Several years ago I read Lewis' classic, Mere Christianity, and I have had a growing interest in reading his fictional piece, The Screwtape Letters. I decided to read roughly a chapter a night to my girls who have seen both the BBC and Disney versions of the movie. It was a little difficult for Grace, my four-year-old, to always follow the story, but Rose, my seven-year-old, enjoyed hearing about the secret land beyond the wardrobe. Upon completion of The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe, both Rose and Grace have expressed on one more than one occasion their disappointment that I am not continuing on with Prince Caspian: The Return to Narnia, the second of seven books in The Chronicles of Narnia series. Although I do not plan on reading more fiction anytime soon, I think there is a good possibility we will continue these adventures in the land of Narnia one day.
This book still had all of the wonder and magic that it had for me when I was a kid. In fact, the book probably means more to me now then it did then. Because now I can understand all the various undertones of the story. When I first read the book I was too young to understand all that was going on under the surface of the main plot. So, to be able to see and digest all the many layers made the book more rewarding and enjoyable. This is a great series and I plan on re-reading the rest of the books at some point.  [...].
I have been reading The Harte Family books I am at #6 of the #7 and I am sorry it will be ending.
For those of you who are unfamiliar with C. S. Lewis's works and stances on life and faith, I suggest you check out Mere Christianity, which is perhaps the best book ever written on the fundamentals of Christianity. Narnia is also one of the greatest Fantasy series to tackle faith, as it is filled with Biblical symbolisms. Lewis noted that kids often picked up on the symbolisms more than adults, so we gotta show those youngsters that we can still think creatively  Story overview: --------------- Peter (13), Susan (12), Edmund (10) and Lucy (8), are evacuated from London to escape the effects of WW2. They go to the home of Professor Digory Kirke, who owns a huge country house and lives with his housekeeper, Mrs MacReady.  Lucy discovers that a mysterious wardrobe is actually a portal to another world called Narnia. She meets a talking faun named Tumnus and learns of the White Witch, who made it always winter but never Christmas. No one believes Lucy on her return, but one day Edmund and her end up in Narnia after hiding in the wardrobe while playing hide-and-seek. Edmund is deceived by the White Witch and betrays his siblings once they all find their way to the world of Narnia.  Meeting up with the Beaver family, the children learn about the fate of Tumnus and the goings on in Narnia. They find out about a prophecy and Aslan (The Great Lion), who is said to be on the move. They eventually meet up with him, and when Edmund is rescued, the White Witch demands his return. According to the ancient law (the "Deep magic") she has the right to do so, but instead of handing over Edmund, Aslan takes his place to die for the boy's guilt. This isn't the end of the Great Lion, as a final battle takes place and the prophecy is fulfilled.  My thoughts: ------------- When I was little, my mother read me this story and I absolutely loved it. Unlike some of the other books my mother had read, I still like this one as much today as I did back then. Ironically, "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" is one of the books in this series I liked the least, but it still marks the beginning of a wonderful magical world, and a journey that every kid should experience. If you have never read them or have not let your children do so, then go out immediately and pickup a copy now!  James D. Maxon Author of Traphis: A Wizard's Tale
The Lion, The Witch, And The Wardrobe By C.S. Lewis Review by Cameron J. Humpherys In this marvelous book by C.S. Lewis, The Lion, The Witch, And The Wardrobe, the settings are the Professor's house and Narnia. Narnia is a magical land where animals can talk and an evil Witch who thinks she's Queen made it forever winter but never Christmas.  The main characters in this book are Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy. These four siblings along with Aslan, a great lion with great powers, work to help free Narnia from the oppressive Witch, who has ruled by fear for a long time.  When Aslan gave himself up to die instead of Edmund to appease a deep magic he activated an even deeper magic which kept him alive. Aslan being alive and the Witch not knowing it made it so that he could un-freeze those that the Witch had turned to stone. Leading the people who were once frozen into battle, they gained the upper hand and defeated the Witch.  My favorite part of the story is when the four children are crowned as Kings and Queens of Narnia. The reason I like that part is that the Witch is dead and there isn't a care in the world and the children are happy. People should read this book because it is an action packed adventure and a great read.  One person I think changed during the story is Edmund. The reason why I think Edmund changed is that at the beginning of the story he is spiteful. One example of his spitefulness is when he saw Narnia and said, "I was just playing with Lucy nothing really happened." But at the end of the story he is kind and good. An example of his goodness is when he breaks the Witch's wand.
This beautifully illustrated book was one of the offerings at the gift shop connected with the Children's Theater in Minneapolis.  My granddaughter wanted this book, but when the performance was over, the gift shop had closed (strange marketing decision), so I was happy to find it on Amazon.com. This is not the original text, but a retelling suitable for younger children.
A little smaller than I expected, but a great but none the less
The guy knows his stuff, I have this guide as well as the Survival Guide written by Mr Towel, together I feel you don't need any other guides if you are seriously  seeking to be prepared for an emergency  situation this one covers it pretty well. I hot 3 copies of this one, one for Jeep, Home and one in my OSB ( Oh S*** Bag ) , Im not some paranoid  guy by any means,  but knowing a few things as a just in case never hurts.
kind of small, yet helpful
I really enjoy this author and this book is very good. I would recommend this book.  The Emma Harte Saga is quite good.
I have read everything Mrs Bradford has ever written and the Hart family are my favorite.  The first is the best and is listed as my favorite of all time books.  The saga continues.  I hope it never ends.
Really enjoyed reading this book. Great information. A must read for anyone interested in survival
Although somewhat dated in its information and clearly European in its contents the overall quality of this handbook is and would be very helpful in a survival scenario.
Ok so I'm one of those people that saw the movie first.  I've tried to read this book 2 times now.  Although short, I just had trouble staying interested in it.  I thought the movie was excellent.  Normally the books are better than the movie, but in my case I don't think so.  I know it's a children's book but it reads very childish to me.  This is the main reason I just couldn't stick with it.  My reason for 4 stars and not less, it was a great movie and it takes a great book to make a great movie.  I'd suggest this to all readers, it's fast and was fairly easy to read.  But don't watch the movie first.
I cannot review the book because it was a christmas gift. But I can tell you that Amazon does a outstanding job filling orders and the service and follow up is just fantastic...good Job....
I only have a few books by her, but I really like her writing.  The book is in very good condition.
Everything that everyone said it would be, great information.
I ordered the tape of The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. I teach a language class for struggling readers.  Students follow along with the book and tape.  This helps to build fluency.  My students are able to enjoy a classic tale of fantasy while building a much needed reading skill.
An entertaining kid's book, and clearly the best of this series, as a group of children find a magical land through a portal in the back of some furniture, of all things.  Evil Snow Queens, a groovy lion, the odd battle and betrayal, and you get a decent fantasy, with the odd bit of beat you over the head obvious dogma.  In this book, that is not so bad.
Boyfriend loved it
Does anyone like fiction books, if so this book is for you?  The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe are about four kids called Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy who move from London, England because air raids. They were sent to an old professor, which they now live in the heart of the country. It was a rainy day so they played a game and happens to fall upon a wardrobe. They entered it and came to a new world called Narnia. Which they don't know that they are the sons and daughters of Adam and Eve. And they have to defeat the White Witch to restore peace to Narnia.   I recommend The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe for children 8 and older. This book has strong felling in this high packed adventure and fiction throughout the book.  -Dorian Alexander Eskridge
it is very small, which is great for traveling with, but difficult to read or keep open.  Be aware this is a pocket sized book
very cool book
One of the books that should be on "books to read before I die" list.  An absolute classic in every sense of the word!!  Reminds you what a child's fantasy is and you'll sit in the chair for hours after you finish reading in your own world... thinking... remembering... wishing...
The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe by C.S. Lewis was a great children's book. The adventures of Lucy, Edmond, Susan and Peter started when they had to move to their grandfather's house due to a war going in London. As they were playing a game of hide and seek they stumbled upon the magical world of Narnia. There they joined forces with the great leader Aslan and together overthrew the evil white witch. I have read this book as a younger kid and just now and there was a big difference in the way I read it. As a kid it was a lot more magical and I couldn't put it down I just had to read it. Now it might be the fact that this is the second time I have read this but it wasn't as good this time around. I had more wonder in my eyes I guess as a kid. I would recommend this book to everyone but I do truly believe kids will enjoy this book more than adults.
Had a lot if information, not sure I missed it, but it is pocket size. So hopefully if you ever are out and need this book and wear reading glasses make sure you have them with you.
I loved this book as a child. I remember having it read to me when I was six. Of course, I was oblivious to the Christian theology running through it at the time, and in later books some of the references to other races is questionable. But this first book remains a classic and an innovator. If you enjoyed it try reading Lightsleep by Matthew S. Batham, a new fantasy about a bratty boy who finds himself in another world.
I loved this book as a child. I remember having it read to me when I was six. Of course, I was oblivious to the Christian theology running through it at the time, and in later books some of the references to other races is questionable. But this first book remains a classic and an innovator. If you enjoyed it try reading Lightsleep by Matthew S. Batham, a new fantasy about a bratty boy who finds himself in another world.
Got this book as a Christmas present.. It's a thorough, informative survival guide. The content is excellent, BUT the print is tiny! The tiny print makes it good for carrying in a backpack, but being in a survival situation without a magnifying glass or damaged glasses would make this guide useless.  As the book goes, I'd give it five stars for content, but I'm taking one off for the "too small to be easily usable" design of the book.
I didn't read this book when I was younger, but I enjoyed it very much! I wanted to read the book before seeing the movie and I just fell in love with the characters. It was a pretty quick read and the ending was spectacular. Highly recommended~
I am sure this will be a useful tool, but I agree with some of the other reviewers -- it is the tiniest book ever!  I am not sure my husband could use it in an emergency if he lost his glasses!  It measures 3-1/4" by 4-1/2" -- there should be something in the description stating that it is only a "pocket-sized" book.
C.S. Lewis strikes again he is such a amazing writer,in which he writes The Chronicles of Narnia Series, This Review is on "The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe." It is such an exciting, emotional,and a very detalied magical story.  It's described with such beautiful imagery, cool battles, and sacrifice, the story even though its an exciting book it is a really childish book. This book reminds me of how me and my sister used to pretend we can fly and go in different worlds and fight monsters. It really had alot of imagination, which actually had me sit down and think of how cool it would actually be if in real life we were able to. I got really into this book, i give it an A!!!
Great detail for all types of things you should know.
Insightful stuff. 4 stars for content and size. My problem is that if its a survival guide, it should be waterproof/ water resistant. Overall nice though.
Great book for the times we live in.
Small even though it is pretty thick, offers a load of great info, if you are wanting to learn this book is awesome.
The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe is an awesome fantasy book that begins with four kids going away to a Professors house.  They find a magic wardrobe that has a world called Narnia inside it.  The four kids wonder into the wardrobe and find many strange creatures that help them during their various adventures.    In the book there are two sides: Good and Evil.  Edmund (the second youngest) turns to the bad side with the White Witch. The other three (Peter, Susan, and Lucy) are on the good side with the great Lion, Aslan.  There is an ongoing battle between the two sides throughout the book.    I loved the book and would give it four and a half stars out of five stars.  This is the second book in the Chronicles of Narnia series.  Which book you read first, doesn't matter.  I would recommend it to any fantasy readers, boys or girls.  I think this is a really great book and you should try to read it.
I'm 28 and, sadly, this is the first time I have read this book. I am ashamed myself. But with the movie coming out,I wanted to read it before I saw the movie. It was an extremely quick read...a couple hours is all it took and well worth the time. I am not a fan of fantasy but this book was a cute book...CS Lewis has yet to let me down.
Perfect for my pack, I downloaded the free PDF version for my tablet.
Great book to have
Great book to have
I would give this five stars for the content, but the formatting here gets three stars, hence the four star rating.  For $3 I really shouldn't complain, but I feel that the selection here in a small compilation could have been a little bit better, and it's definitely missing some of Burns' great works (no "Address to a Haggis"!) which could easily have been included and I would gladly have paid a dollar or so more for. But this is what it is - a small compilation of Burns' works meant to be portable and slim, and for that purpose, it's great. Plus it has one of my favorite Burns poems - "Scotch Drink".  This is great for the initiate into the works of Robert Burns or as a traveler paperback. It has a glossary in the back with just about every Scots dialect term (at least those not immediately understandable by the English speaker) used throughout, which is awesome.
An who cannot love this?
I bought this because I read an excerpt from it in a history book of mine years ago, when I finally got around to buying this I had forgotten the excerpt and in which book I had found it ha.  It's a delightful little thing full of song and love roundabouts.
I was given this book by my maternal step-uncle, MacLean McCollough, and was looking forward to sitting down to a good read.  Imagine the horror, disbelief, nay, shock, I felt when I realized that my copy was literally filled with ghastly spelling mistakes.  Hardly one line remains unblemished; it was festooned with puerile errors. As my High School's Spelling Bee champion, I was flabbergasted that such a compendious volume as the one under review should be in this manner disfigured.  Even my great Spelling Bee rival, Jocasta Fung, could have done a better proof-reading job than the fellow who perused this volume.  I hope Mr Burns has initiated his own complaint, and that a flawless edition of these otherwise beguiling poems will soon make its appearance.
Love the content but this thing is a monster. It's not a take it with you in case of emergency. It's a study up on the content and cut out a few pages for an emergency bag. Loved the colored pics of the plant life to assist in determining plant safety and much more comprehensive then other guides out there.
Good info, I read it often and keep it in my go bag.
As soon as he got this book, he sat right down and began to read it.  He's 7, and reading is a challenge for him,so it's good to know that it drew him in.
i love reading these books during the cold season. I especially love reading these books.. doesn't matter which one, snuggled under a warm blanket sitting in my rocking chair in front of the fireplace  with of course snacks and hot chocolate. u should try it.. it's fulfilling.
Great book. A lot of helpful skills and scenarios. The only draw back is the size of the book. If I were to go backpacking, it's not a small book. Other then that, it's a book I would recommend to others.
A lot of this material is pretty common sense stuff for any outdoorsman or knowledgeable prepper.  However, it's a great reference guide to have as a reminder of how to do things right, how to forage and skin animals, basic medical and identify edible plants, a lot of things that you can never fully remember if you were actually out in the wild on your own.  Good back up manual for all situations.
If you're interested in how a strong-willed conservative would deal with an ingrained socialist government (not to mention society), give this tome a look-see. Very well written, brutally honest, with just enough of Lady Thatcher's dry Brit humor to spice things up. As another reviewer has pointed out, though, if you're American and unfamiliar with certain British lingo, be prepared to scratch your head on occasion. Favorite quote from the book: "It was not long before the conversation turned from trivialities-- for which neither Mr. Gorbachev nor I had any taste-- to a vigorous two-way debate. In a sense, the argument has continued ever since and is taken up whenever we meet; and as it goes to the heart of what politics is really about, I wouldn't have it any other way>"
Lady Thatcher gives very detailed insights into her eleven years as the British prime minister. It seems like she covers everything that happened in those eleven years in her political life, she is 100 percent a  politician. However, she doesn't give out any details about how her  marriage with Denis must have been influenced by her incredible workload.  She has written a very detailed account of her years in power, and it takes  quite a while for those interested to swallow the 800+ pages. It is well  worth it though, because it is often very interesting and Lady Thatcher has  quite a sense of humour. I recommend this to everybody who has any interest  in British or international politics in the 1980s.
I thought that this was a very interesting biography of an most unusual modern leader. Lady Thatcher gives a very detailed account of her 11 years as British Prime Minister, devoting a generous amount of space to the  Falklands War, the Troubles in Northern Ireland, her dealings with a wide  variety of foreign leaders, and her tackling of major domestic problems.  While I found the book interesting, I had difficulty with some of the terms  that Lady Thatcher uses, as I am not familiar with the finer points of  British politics.
Essential handy guide for truly wild camping/living off the land in a wide variety of environments. Easy to understand diagrams and instructions. Ideal size for keeping with you - a waterproof paper version would be ideal, which would make this safe to use in all weather. Ideal to read before planning outdoor activities especially if you are going to teach/practice shelter making or wish to travel very light with just a bivvie bag. Also includes information on making open fires, ovens and cooking utensils/apparatus to dry cloths, cook food etc...
My wife loves to read these Autobiographies so I get them for here.
I read this book over the summer, and I learned so much about both British and world politics in the 1980's from it.  Sometimes, it could be a little slow; it's by no means "light reading."  In general, I found it very rewarding to read.
I was compelled to read this book because of the media's criticism of the former Prime Minister.  I wanted to know about Margaret Thatcher.  One of my best friends lives in London and he has always felt that Margaret saved England from a rough economic downturn.  The book was well written and answered a lot of my questions.
It's quite helpful, especially in the wet and cold seasons.
I found it technical and somewhat drawn out.  However, there were many sections that I remembered from the news, and enjoyed reading her interpretation of the behind the scenes of those events.
Margaret Thatcher had great vision and personal grit to undertake extremely difficult political decisions and see them through with unwavering determine. She was a leader that will go down in history as equal to what Churchill meant to Briton during WW2. Our world leaders could take some lessons from her leadership in today's ongoing financial and political upheavals.
I enjoy reading about a person I respected. Always history is interesting, especially from view-point of someone who was there.
Excellent guide for those who enjoy spending long periods of time in the outdoors.
my son loved it! just wished it had more pictures and little less writing from a  teenagers point of view
Very good reading for any of us who want to understand international relationship a bit more. All throughout the book it is clear the subjective and partial view of the world that this Prime Minister had. One the other hand, it is book written by her and not a historical account created by a historian. Very educational!
for the price i paid the book was kind of thick and heavy. there was an old smell and some browning on the edges but it's okey, it's what's inside that counts. it's kind of boring at first but then again, you have to be a politician to understand everything she's saying and politician i am not. all in all, if i really want to learn what it takes to be a woman prime minister i have to read the whole thing. not everyone can be golda meir.
According to a customer on Amazon.com, "When read on an adult level, the Narnia Chronicles function as a powerful medium used by Lewis to impart powerful spiritual truths about Christianity and theology. But these spiritual truths are conveyed more by Biblical allusions than by rigid allegory."   This statement is absolutely correct.  While I was reading The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, it sounded like I was reading the bible.  Aslan, symbolizes God, and the White Witch symbolizes Satin.  When Aslan gets stabbed at the Stone Table, it is symbolizing Jesus dying on the cross, and when the lion comes back to life, it is symbolizing the Resurrection.   C.S Lewis' use of symbolism does not make The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe a better story.  Some people may think that symbolism makes it good, I think it makes it worse.  If a person wanted to read about that, they could just read the bible.  C.S Lewis should have incorporated more of his own ideas into the storyline.   There are a lot of good things going for this book.  There are interesting characters, good conflicts, and good detail about the scenery.  I just think that C.S. got carried away with symbolism.
IN a fantasy book that I went into reading it not expecting much in return I was pleasantly surprised.  I found a jounrey of children into a magical world that was being controled by an evil witch.  The interactions between the characters are far suprior to that of most other books.  A must read for people ages 5 to 1000
Narnia, a magical world, beckons four children, Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy, into it's realm through the back of a wardrobe.  Through this wardrobe the children find adventure and magic like nothing they could have ever imagined.  It is in Narnia that they come into contact with Aslan the Lion who bestows upon them the tools and confidence they need to become the rulers of the country.  The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe is a fantastic children's tale, but one that holds special meaning for adults as well.  I read this as a child, re-read it in my early twenties, and now have enjoyed it during yet another decade.  Each time I read it I pick up on new symbolism and meaning and get even more out of it.  The parallels to Christianinty are more apparent with each reading and yet one can easily get swept up in the story.  This classic is to be cherished by young and old alike and a great story for parents to enjoy with their children not once, but over and over.
Hillary Clinton has mentioned that she went blond after reading Thatcher's autobiography.  Why did Thatcher go blond?  Thatcher's books don't list blond, bleach or hair in the index.  I wish more books were in digital form.  thanks.
A no nonsense and fast paced (yes and lengthy) review of Britain in the 70's 80's and early 90's. Thatcher led the UK out of the "pit" of socialism (and closed a few pits too!)  Sadly the world lacks Politicians with conviction when we need them more than ever. This book will restore your faith in the fact that real politicians DO and WILL have an opinion. Love her or hate her she DID change her times...and sat down to write about how she left her mark. The creed of Thatcherism will not die and just look at New Labour, she even convinced the left to move to the right!
Good information
Very informative book and ood to have as a readiness read.  Keep with gear to have as reference in an emergency situation
Okay, this is the POCKET guide.  I guess I should've read closer.  This is a great tool and I'm glad I bought it but it's tiny!  Perfect for my bug out bag but I didn't realize it was so tiny.  I also wish it was sturdier, maybe water proof a little but I'll just put it in a ziploc to protect it from elements.  Overall, this is a good guidebook.
Really good resource !!
This book has a lot of very useful information in it.  The deduction of one star is only because this book is much smaller than I had anticipated.  I don't mean smaller as in few pages.  I mean smaller as in actual dimensions.  It would fit in a cargo pocket with a ton of room to spare.  If your looking for a good all around survival technique book, I highly recommend.  If your looking for something to put on an end table, this is not it.
It helps tremendously
I think that, The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe was a pretty good book.  I really think that everybody should read this book.  I chose it because it looked interresting so I picked it.  My favorite part was when Lucy first saw Narnia.  I think that people who like imaginary things and places should read this book!  My favorite character was Lucy, she was brave and she never got scared of anything!  So all of you out there should read this very good book
we will see!
A survival book that try's to cover as much information as possible for as many situations as possible. It was recommended to me as an addition to my emergency box (for extreme weather). I'm in no way a prepper, I just keep a blanket and some candles, but a friend said this was a must have so I threw it in with the hope I never need it!
Good stuff!
I really like this little book and by little, I mean TINY!  My husband was amazed that I could even read it with glasses on.  It never occurred to me to read the dimensions, but even if I had, I would have probably considered it a plus because I want to be able to toss this amazing reference in my backpack.  I've skimmed through most of it already and even downloaded the iPhone app.  I must be learning something useful because I quizzed myself through the app and did pretty well.  Of course, if the power goes bye-bye, my little survival guide will still be there for me!
Great information, but the ebook has several typos, images in the wrong place, etc, so it can be confusing at times.  In particular for a book on survival, showing the wrong image for edible food can be detrimental, so I would highly recommend a good proofreading.
i thought it was going to be a little bigger, it's a pocket size book, but does have a ton of info.  so good for a bug out bag.
liked it
Awesome book, but its HEAVY! LOL. This was for my bug out bag. And it weighs a lot. More than my knives, my fire, my gas tank and stove, and my rope. It is HEAVY!!
Loads of practical info and the right size to carry it with me when I go hiking. A true classic!
Has some good stuff.
I  think staying together is good for the family in this book, because if they didn't they would have never saved Mr. Tumnus from the witch. I recommend this book to anyone who knows how to read  and like an excellent adventure you are looking for a theme and  good morals this is an aswome book for you to read. You can be any age to read  this  book. If you think this book would be childish because you've heard about it. It's somewhat childish in parts of it, but the quality of  the characters  makes up for it. If you like an excellent adventure book I reckoned that you go pick this book up right now.
great book would have been awesome if they added some plants from other places too.
Lots of good tips and information . . . if you can read it.  Small booklet and even smaller type.
Great book that should have been in my collection sooner. Best yet for me is Wildwood Wisdom by Ellsworth Jaeger.
crucial handbook for the emergency bug out kit. don't get in a apocalyptic situation without it.  throw it in your emergency bugout at least. or keep in the trunk of your car!
Very good info.  A little small, But easy to carry
When I was in junior high school, my teacher introduced me to the  Chronicles of Narnia and she seemed very enthusiastic about it. So I tried  it and found it a bit wordy for my liking. But I read on anyway and I  became quite interested in the mythical world of Narnia, which is just like  Oz, only with fabulous creatures and beasts. And I had seen the children's  picture books featuring the noble lion, Aslan and the fearless children as  well as remembering the animated show I saw on the TV years ago - so right  now I am falling into love all over again! Now I just can't wait to re-read  the remarkable tale of bestiary as soon as I can get my hands on a copy!  One thing that really puzzles me, though - how come the very first book,  The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe is reprinted as the second book???!!
Got this at the same time as "How to Survive the End of the World as We Know It".  I had a situation that had me questioning my preparedness in the event of a natural disaster.  This book, as well as the other, provided simple yet effective tools and techniques for survival situations and "living off the grid".  I felt they were both well were the small investment.
I probably should have given this five stars instead of four, but the book is very small with a very small font which makes it difficult for me to read. Having said that, it is a very informative and full of useful information. It goes into details leaving you no doubt as to its meaning. It is well organized and covers a broad range of material and locations. It is of a good size to put in your shirt pocket or bug out bag without taking up a lot of room, which makes it easier to keep with you on any outing into remote areas where you may need it. Other then the small print and my 57 year old eyes, it is an excellent source of survival information.
A bittersweet, poignant, and often funny look at the life of the man who occupied the shoes of a certain Time Lord in the mid-late '70s. You can tell that Tom Baker is a very intelligent man, yet, despite his popularity as The Doctor, has almost crippling self-esteem issues. He admits as much and lays the blame for most of his misfortunes in life solely at his own feet, though I would argue his upbringing in Liverpool is more to blame to that than his own shortcomings.  If you're looking for a behind-the-scenes look at Doctor Who, look elsewhere. It was a short 7-year period in this man's life and largely seems to have been an escape from reality for him, a reality he perceives as being a string of failures, both before and after his time as The Doctor.  Who is Tom Baker? He was The Doctor and The Doctor was him. He remains a gifted, captivating story-teller.
A very interesting bio. I really enjoyed it. It's better than a usual interview or bio written by someone else. Tom goes into quite a bit of detail from things that happened in his childhood to when he was the Doctor and after. The after is actually a bit sad. I will never see Tom the same way again, in a good way. Great book.
Very informative book, especially when compaired to other survival books. My only complaint is that it uses Britishisms that I do not understand and can't even find on the internet.
Covers a lot of material.  Pretty basic stuff and covers many many many situations most of us won't encounter all of.  Still a fun read.
A good guidebook, written in the Queens English. Which makes me wonder how much of the information is applicable in my own environment. Also some information technically works, but could get you killed in the process, like the solar still. Solar stills look great on appear, but yield little to no water.  You probably use more water to build it.
Meets expectations for my teen grandson.
Good info.
Very informative but it's so small the spine cracked away from the cover after opening it a few times.
great information & well written, worth the purchase
good quality. good price.
Great info.  A little thick and heavy though
Lots of useful information.  Would have preferred a little larger book size though.
A handy survival guide to keep on your night stand or in your emergency bag. It contains some very useful information that is relevant even in non-contastrophic situations.
great read
Really good book on the subject.
Good thick book and informative too.  Heavy thick book chocked full of survival means.  It is in my special place for future reference and seems to cover anything you may come across to survive.
lots of general info but the surprisingly small size made it difficult to read, but at least its easy to keep it handy
so far the most comprehensive survival  Uses equipment that can be found around most house holds and adds things that are within most peoples price range. excellent read.
This version was the "gem" size. A little too small although still legible. Wish I bought the regular paperback version but still a neat and informative resource!
pics are great.
No one can do characterizations like Dame Christie, and she can even do these remarkably well within the confines of a short story.  This little book of Miss Marple short stories is a wonderful cap to the entire Miss Marple series.  I had read some of them individually, but there were some I had not read before, and I enjoyed them all.  My own particular favourite though was "The Case of the Perfect Maid" (an oxymoron if there ever was one).  It is remarkable how Ms. Christie can typecast each of her wonderful characters so quickly, and provide us with tricky and intricate mysteries at the same time.
This is a great book that lives up to its claims "any situation" it has been around for decades and still is the best there is.
Good book with good information. Lots of thought went into this and it would definitely help anyone who is in a survival situation, or simply wants to do some primitive camping and try a new thing or two.  Many parts seem like it's aimed at those with zero now ledge of survival, or even camping for that matter. For experienced woods folk this book may serve as a reminder that offers a few tidbits of new info.  Not bad for beginners/intermediate woods folk.
Totally Agatha Christie.  Always a great story
CONTENT OF AUDIO CDs  (You can never find the content listed.  Here it is !) CD 1 Tracks 1-9  SANCTURARY  (Hickson) Tracks 10-14  STRANGE JEST  (Hickson)  CD 2 Tracks 1-5  MISS MARPLE TELLS A STORY (Hickson) Tracks  6-11  THE TAPE MEASURE MURDER (Hickson) Tracks 12-17  THE CASE OF THE PERFECT MAID (Hickson)  CD 3 Tracks 1-6  THE CASE OF THE CARETAKER (Hickson) Tracks 7-13 GREENSHAWS FOLLYpart 1  (Blair)  CD 4 Tracks 1-5  GREENSHAWS FOLLYconcl.  (Blair) Track 6  THE DRESSMAKERS DOLL  (Massey)
For fans of Joan Hickson's portrayal of Miss Marple, it will be lovely hearing her voice. Be forewarned however that the last two stories were read by someone else, presumably since Miss Hickson passed away.
Very amusing
If you are a Christie fan, you probably have these stories--they are not new, in my experience, but they filled some gaps in my Christie library. It's a good addition if you are not heavily into Miss Marple and want a representation, or as a loaner-book for any uninitiated friends those whose lives have not been brightened by the Christie phenomena before (there are unenlightened out there, strange as it may seem). A basic compendium, in all.
always good reading.
I have always been a fan of the Miss Marple stories and this is a good addition to my collection of reading.
This is the only book you need! It's great!
Say it as we feel it. Insecurities and all. A bird puller who suffers for his art.  No woman should be allowed to read this book or probably any other of Tony Parson's work. Every man should - in the privacy of one's den when the wife is out, the kids are with the grandparents and the doors are locked.  Fluent written so you don't have to worry about stupid long romantic sentences.
I liked all the cases and am always amazed at the writer's ability to lay out the story and when it comes to the conclusion, I am never disappointed in any of them.
Lots of good info in here. Well organized so you can pull portions out when traveling to various places to conserve weight.
The Kindle version has 9 stories instead of 8.  They add "Greenshaw's Folly" from "Adventures of the Christmas Pudding".  It also has additional material about Miss Marple novels.  I enjoyed several of the stories, such as "Sanctuary", but found others to be absurd.  The "Dressmaker's Doll" and "In a Mirror Darkly" where really about the supernatural, quite unlike what I come to expect from Agatha Christie, where the supernatural always ends up having a logical explanation.  I was waiting in both cases for Poirot or Miss Marple to come in and explain it, but both stories end abruptly leaving many questions unanswered.
I just returned from a year-long trip that took me around the jungles and beaches of Papua New Guinea, and this product was part of my pack.  I learned a lot paging through it during the year, and it made for an excellent gift for my host father when I got ready to leave.  The illustrations make it easy to understand the more complicated concepts and directions in the book, and the pages are sturdy enough to withstand the humidity I was in all year.
like the book has many details you might need when out in the forest or stranded in a remote place
Only knock was that this book is pocket sized. Very good information though for the survivalist or even the average camper.
A lot of good information! Noticed that you can download to your kindle. Thinking if your kindle is working you are most likely not in a survival situation. If you are in a survival situation and your kindle actually works and you decide to see if this is an edible berry, and at that very moment your battery runs out. Lol Just thinking survival books should be actual books
This book has a lot of information in it that could save your life some day. It is great tree stand material.
Some of the info seems pointless, but overall the book has lots of new (to me) and useful ideas, especially plants and wild food in color.
good information ,will give you the information you need in an emergency, everyone should improve their survival skills, I would recommend to a friend
Certainly an interesting book, but as far as Gurdjieff's 'outlandish cosmology,' the good doctor needs a dose of his own medicine and be somewhat less credulous.  Gurdjieff followed the cryptic method of the Pythagoreans that he called "burying the dog," a cloaking device mentioned by Cicero and Iamblichus.  The lesson? Don't blindly believe everything you read.
This is an original piece of horror fiction using a tried and true premise; outsider goes to a small town, uncovers secrets and weird things going on, a race against the ticking clock, etc.   Muriel gray does a great in-depth job about this trucker who is carrying an unknown cargo and just writes a great novel. She is a new writer and is one to watch; she has all the tools to scare and frighten.   She writes at a break-neck speed and keeps the obstacles coming. The twists and turns are "realistic" and she does a credible job at shaping her characters.   Definitely a writer to watch!!
This book may not be very original, but the characters are believable and things keep moving along.  There is a fairly entertaining twist at the end of the book involving a major character that I didn't see coming.  The description of the demon/elemental was decently scarey.  I also liked the the protagonist was an alchemist and not a witch; I thought that was an interesting twist on the genre.  Recommended.
Okay, it's the third time I've reviewed this book, but this time it's with new knowledge and one less star - the incredible originality of 'Furnace' is knocked one notch lower when you read M.R.James' short-story 'Casting The Runes', written in the early 1900's, and realise the premise is identical to 'Furnace'. There is no doubting that Gray read James prior to writing 'Furnace', but James was a story-telling genius, and Gray modernises his work fantastically, and adds the creative writing style that is all her own, so it is still a chillingly-enthralling book.
I've never done serious over-the-road trucking, but I've driven hundreds of thousands of miles around the U.S., fairly often pulling the kind of marathons that Josh Spiller and his trucker buddies do.  The American road  is a world of its own, and I've read few books that capture it.  Muriel  Gray really nails it, which is surprising given that she's from Scotland.  She mentions in the acknowledgements that she took a cross-country trip  with a trucker as part of her research.  She was obviously paying  attention. As for the rest, the characters are believable, the plot moves  right along, and it's nice to read a good novel about America where the  characters are working class.  This is popular fiction, not serious  literature, but it's a darn good read.
Very good story. Did not like the jumping back and forth in time. Writing was very descriptive but some events went on too long.
I continue to single out these Booker winners, and have not yet been disappointed.  This is a uniquely and vividly written piece!
Or anyone for that matter that ever treks into the woods. This is a field guide on many different survival techniques, while I'm sure you can find better information on each subjects somewhere else, I have yet to find a better compilation.
Great book! It is a long read. The pictures could be updated. There are probably better survuval handbooks out there, but this book is a perfect start to someone who is interested in leaning survival techniques.
I should have looked at the dimensions of the book first because I was surprised to see how tiny it is. This works to the advantage of the space-minded back-packer but was a little hard to read for someone with less than perfect eyesight. It is filled with valuable information that could easily save your life...so I bought a magnifying glass to help coax out the small print. Thanks for the quick turn-around too!
this book is a complete work and leaves few questions.  sometimes, it's difficult to follow due to the way it is written, but in general, it is very comprehensible.  a must have for every prepped.
Might have read the description wrong but the book itself is travel size. Good for your grab bag or whatever you may need it for. Makes for a great bathroom book.
After I read this book I checked to make sure I wasn't carrying any odd  looking pieces of paper! I loved how Gray described the creatures  various manifestations, never overboard, just enough to let YOUR  imagination run wild, like on moonless nights when you hear a muffled thump  outside your window. The bait and switch tactics employed by Josh  Spiller fooled me as well as Griffin and the mayor - "YOU ASKED FOR  IT" - describes my reaction upon witnessing the results.
Muirel Gray's Furnace grabbed my attention quickly and held it captive  through the first quarter of the book. Unfortunately,  I found my attention waning during the second and third quarters, as the story moved too slowly for my taste and introduced some sub-plots that were somewhat disjointed and/or uninteresting. Gray did  manage to recapture some of my attention and interest in the final quarter of the book but by this point I was as much interested in finishing it so I could move on to my next book as in finding out how the story ends.  Furnace could easily have been an  "8" or possibly a "9" with some necessary editing.
I would recomend this to anyone who wants to survive well.  The pictures of the plants were also very helpfull.
What can I say.  The material covered in this book is invaluable and easily understood along with instructions & drawings to follow.
good overall good for those  who are serious  about survival.  I would recommend this book as  standard issue for all outdoors minded people.
Extremely informative! It is full of information that can help in a variety of situations from the most experienced to the last
I carry one with me when I travel and I give these as gifts to people I care about.  You never know when you might need it.
I purchased this for my husband as a gift, he really seems to like it. I have skimmed through it as well. LOTS of interesting tips and more!
This book is very informative it covers almost every possible scenario and then some. The real problem is there is just so much information that it can be overwhelming. The book contains so much useful information but on certain topics lacks detailed information that could be useful and then on the other hand contains information that would never be utilized by the average citizen. Good book, very useful but take your time and decide what topics and information are relevant to you individually.
I have only skimmed this book and will use it as a reference. I guess its value will be determined in time of need
Beautifully written and raw. I didn't adore how the book jumped around chronologically and there were some seriously disturbing passages, but I suppose it made it all more real.
Loved the flow of thoughts and feelings and the descriptions of place.  Late-breaking development in the twins' relationship was totally un-necessary.
So much info. I would highly recommend to any prepper or person looking for education on survival. The writer is amazing. So much great information. It is a solid read. And a must for a survival kit. I've read it numerous times!
It was strange and fascinating to leave all that is familiar and be immersed in a culture, in a family so different from my own. But still the motivations of the characters are as recognizable as those of my family and friends.
This is a beautifully written non linear tragedy. My only sadness was that in the end, I felt like I knew Rahel and Estha least of all.
Its a beautifully written story about a set of twins, a boy and girl, living in India. There are many levels to it including the characters of their mother, aunt, grandmother and uncle with whom they live.  You feel the tension as the plot builds and builds. There were times I didn't want to put the book down, even though the reader is aware of an ominous ending.  I have to say though, I would rather feel hopeful and feel a sense of justice  at the end of a story.  Unfortunately it left me with feelings of despair and sadness!
This author's use of language in all descriptions and passages is amazing. At first I was a little confused by her switching back and forth in time, but then I  caught on. She would give you a tease of a mystery but then you would eventuality find the answer.
Must have book for being outdoors, tons of information about many things. I hike/Backpack a lot and in many different locations, learned a few neat things from this book. Always carry it with me!
Well organized and thought out. Would recommend this book. Could definitely be shorter and there is some repetition - but then you have no need to read it cover to cover either.
Plant identification for edible and posionous has color pics and very useful.  Good chapters on setting snares and traps for capturing game and for basic knots and how to use them.  Skimpy in other areas, but still useful info.  I'll toss this in my boogy-out bag along with the Basic Butchering of Livestock and Game book just because of the two chapters I mentioned, but the book is really too heavy.  Might just tear those two chapters out along with some other useful info and toss the rest to lighten the pack.
I read this several years ago and was, at best, lukewarm about it. My friend, Donna, thought that, at the time at least,it was perhaps the best book she had ever read. I picked it up again as an audiobook and liked it better. The author certainly does have an amazing way with words!  It is a story I will think about for a long time.
Loved the querkie characters and the trials they encounter. The middle section concerning the issues in Kashmir went on too long and detracted a bit from the characters I wanted to follow - but it all plays into the storyline.
The structure of the book was not to my liking. The writing and the characters are well drawn, but I would have preferred a more linear narrative, although this did all come together in the ending. I look forward to reading her new book.
Great series for Clancy books!!!
good series
Good information in the book. I wish it had more about purifying water without any equipment to boil water with.
its very well written nevertheless its really for those whom are in less urban situations like jungle's and mountains a lot of outside of the country, however the traps and rope knots and knife sharpening tools and useful products that you can find out doors is great knowledge. it really is a book that everyone from survivalist to backpacker to novice.
Bought this book and read it in like 3 days! Arundhati Roy has a very peculiar style of writing! I was glued to the book till the very end. All though I sort of predicted a few things!
very good but poignant
I have read this twice now, and the writing is exquisite. I found the book to be sad and the characters unhappy, but it is so well written.
Entertaining, but not Clancy's best.
Typical Tom Clancy short novel. Good plot and interesting situations.
husband like this movie I didn't
Op-Center was a fun series of books to read, although the last couple were a little convoluted.
Had a hard time setting it down - a good read!
Enjoyed this one as much as the others, and am headed to the next right now.  Have a good read.
Tom Clancy has always written good stuff and this is right up at the top of my list of to reads
Very well written, moved quick pace. I imagine that we'll see Georgiev again down the line. Will Hood's wife be able to reconcile her feelings?
Even though this is not the best Op-Center work, This book portrays an excellent look at a serious problem in our world today. That problem is the idea of total Pacifism. This book sets an outstanding contrast between those who favor war and those who oppose it at all costs. State of Seige shows the frustrations of Pacifists and the frustrations of those dealing with them. As a Navy Seal once said, "No one wants to fight, but someone ought to know how." State of Seige is a must read for students war or pacifism.
A VERY HELPFUL BOOK WOULD RECOMEND TO OTHERS GIVE IT FOUR STARS ONLY BECAUSE SHIPPING WAS JUST TOO HIGH , HOWEVER A GOOD AND EASY READ
This book is very thorough with the survival situations it covers.  This is a book for the person who wants to know everything about any situation.  If you are looking for something with the bare basics, then this book will frustrate you with too much detail and too much information to remember.  If you are looking for something more like a survival course textbook, then you will be pleased with this book.  The author writes in a matter of fact way, not for entertaining you, like a textbook.  I have been very pleased and happy with this book.
There is an absurd amount of helpful information in the book. The book is surprisingly small and decently well built - the cover seems thick and would probably be somewhat water resistant. I don't know if I would bring this backpacking but it seems like an excellent resource for your bookshelf or maybe for your car. With that in mind, it may be worth getting the full size version. However, the book as a resource seems pretty fantastic.
Have not had any survival training since my scout days. Great to refresh my skills and knowledge. Going to buy his Urban Survival book next.
Author's sense of imagery is apparent from the start. Although a novel it speaks of the true lives of the people of this part of the world, given that it may be a difficult read for some.
Okay, so it wasn't Clancy's best work, but don't tell me you didn't want to know the ending.  Clancy's solo novels are great, but you've got to have a lot of time on your hands.  As the mom of a toddler, the Op-Center and  NetForce books are an easy, good read.  I had to put Rainbow Six away  because I didn't have time to get into all the hundred ongoing scenarios  and keep them straight.  Plus, it's too heavy to carry on vacation (the  only time I have to read.)  I can ALWAYS count on Tom Clancy for an  entertaining story.  Isn't that what novels are for? I've really grown to  like Paul Hood and Mike Rodgers.  Their opposite, but compatible workstyles  make Op-Center flow.  Please get Sharon some counseling.  She should be  proud of her husband.  I would be if I were her.
Lovely writing; heavy on metaphors.  Good read.
I purchased this book for my brother who looked into the different survival books. He said this one is by far the best out there right now.
This is the first survival book I've purchased.  It is VERY thorough, with information on all climates I could imagine.  At times it is somewhat overwhelming since I've never experienced for example a desert climate, but I just skip over those sections.  It is written well and organized appropriately.  It is easy to find the appropriate section when I want to go back and check something.  It covers a lot of topics very well.  I think the next survival book I purchase will be something that is more detailed about my specific region, but I feel this is a good book to keep on my shelf.
Beautifully written...like poetry
A wealth of knowledge about survival tips well worth a read. I love this book for the information it contains.
Very well written, with images and thoughts that will haunt you in many ways.  Vivid tale of the many sides or class (caste), race, family abuse, patriarchy, and love.  All in all, one of the saddest books I remember......everyone in this book suffers.
The subplot is the destruction of a family but the book explores even bigger topics within it. They include the twiness of twins, love and hate of family, the caste system ,the impact  of communism, being a woman in India, the list goes on. Add to the story vivid characters whose pain we feel and a real interest in what happens to them and you have an important and readable book.
Beautifully written.  A great command of the English language.  At times found it a bit disjointed.
I like the information, full color pictures, and the material the pages are made from. I think it would be good to take into the field.
Good book and only about a 3 inch square in size. Very informative and nice to have on hand. You never know when you might need it
While there are a few books out there that have more stuff that is localized in that area of expertize this book however covers a wide range of issues that all the other do not. I would suggest this book if you are a someone who wants to be ready for anything. Expect the worst and hope for the best :D
Until I get stranded in the wilderness, I won't know for sure, how good the advice is, but, if you're over 40, you do need magnification to read this very small book (a pocket fresnel lens is inexpensive, lightweight and suitable).  High quality paper.  Being small, it is light enough to pack along on any trip.
Very colorful writing, to the point that one would need to read the book twice in order to catch more than half of the details.
Can't say that I enjoyed reading this book. The family was disturbed  and the story was painful to read, however, I could not put it down. Estha and Rahel were true victims of all of the adults in their lives. The writing was beautiful but very depressing.
It's my slow summer read. Enjoying it so far.
Such interesting characters and intricate story.
Great character development, scene description and a dramatic finish.  A good mixture of heroic and tragically flawed characters.  Great read.
This book had a lot of advice in it that was helpful, even if you don't intend to live off the land it has a loot of basics that people need to be aware of.
Reading through, it almost feels like what one would imagine the monsoon weather described in some parts within, would feel like. The narrative isn't staccato but neither does it lack the undulating rhythm that helps to keep things engaging & interactive.
Set in Kerala, Southern India, in the 1970s and today, this is a totally original work. 31 year old Rahel is returning to her childhood home - to her aunt 'Baby' Kochamma and the twin brother she has not seen for many years. From the first page the reader realises this is a work of masterful prose; Roy's descriptions bring the rank and humid village and its river to life. "Outside the rain had stopped. The grey sky curdled and the clouds resolved themselves into little lumps like substandard mattress stuffing."  There is a childhood tragedy which somehow had lasting implications for the whole family, but this is only slowly revealed in all its detail, as the narrative shifts backwards and forwards. There are moments of great humour as we see the world through the eight-year-old twins' eyes; also of heartbreak, as their lives are ruined forever by an accident and by the malice of the adults around them.  Although it's masterly writing, maybe it leaves the reader more impressed than emotionally touched, but still a great novel.
A little heavier duty than I might need, but you never know.  Has survival topics that most would never even think of.
Great book. Tons of detailed, varied information. For a BOB, Id probably get the smaller version. Gets you into a survivalist mindset. Consider accompanying this book with some on Wild edible and medicinal plants, Hunting and trapping, and basic anatomy/medicine/surgical procedures.
A family whose fates reflect the society and its values is followed through the varied stratified population found in Kerala in SW India. Thru the tragic death of a young visiting cousin a heavily vined tree with many branches reaches out to Life an death ;encompassing a seductive landscape and family in the authors magnificent prose at times aspiring to poetry
The story is a little hard to follow for the first few chapters because it jumps between the past and present. The story itself is quite intriguing not to mention that the author does a great job at describing each character.  (semi spoiler alert!) I also love how the story begins at the end and ends in the middle.
....the zombie apocalypse happens, I wanted to have a survival book handy. After much research, this was one of the most recommended. The layman's terms and photos were very helpful.
This book is a neat collection of topics for survival, packaged in a unique size and material for on-the-go.  Honestly it needs to go in my bug-out / backpacking rig, but it currently lives in our bathroom for "throne-room" literature. :)
I gave this as a gift to my boyfriend and liked this best over another survival book I got him. He stated lots of information and made him think about certain situations.
Wa s hardish going early on but got more involved as the story unfolded in the second half of the book
Read this for class, and was surprisingly intrigued. Very good read. I reccomned it to those who want to gain a new perspective on life, love, and family.
Quite a complicated book. Beautifully and cleverly written. But not for a regular reader who is more interested in a fast developing plot, witty dialogues. To enjoy this book one must take time and patience to savor both - the beauty of language and as if a simple story with so many undercurrents. There was a time I thought I might not read it to the end, but I finished the book a week ago and it still makes me think. Perhaps I will re-read it once again. Recommended to those who seek for more than just pure entertainment.
I enjoy this book a lot. It is informative and a great add to my collection! Even my son has enjoyed reading it, and trying out a few things.
This is a great book to take with most hikes, and backpacking trips.  Yes the weight will be an issue, but it has multiple area knowledge for food / plants / wildlife that helps even the most experienced traveler.
THIS IS MY FIRST SURVIVAL BOOK THAT I HAVE BOUGHT FOR MY LIBRARY..I THINK IT IS VERY INFORMATIVE AND A GOOD BOOK TO START OFF WITH..I PLAY TO BUY OTHER BOOK LIKE THIS ONE TO ADD TO THE COLLECTION..THE WAY I SEE IT IS EVERYONE HAS DIFFERENT WAYS TO SURVIVE BUT THIS IS AN ALL AROUND GOOD BOOK..
It is a good book, but it is written for another country so not everything is as easy to find as you will wish it to be.  But still glad I bought it!
When one reads this book it is a bit confusing because the author is jumping from one thought to the next. The author also jumps from the past to present a lot so you kind of get lost but overall its a good book. I would recommend it.
India incarnate, exploring the legacy of caste blended with the highs of lows of family.
Beautifully written
Great information that everyone should be aware of - wherever you live.  One never knows.  But, took off one star for just a few glaring errors.
We were expecting the bigger size but this will do the trick too. At least it can fit in my pocket.
Rich literary.  Puzzling at times as your brain needs to figure the sequence. Worth it.
It looks like a jigsaw puzzle. Because author disregard the sequence of narration, we have to recover it in our brain. It belomgs perhaps to one of most difficult novels.
don't leave home without it.  small pocket size, great for camping, hiking, coffee table, and just generally what every you would want this book for.
this book is full of great ideas and thoughts. I hope to never need to use any of the survival techniques in this book but feel it will help me if I do.
Read for school by my daughter
Interesting. Hoewever, there are parts of the book where it is hard to follow the author's thoughts.
I thought the book had a lot of good information for the inexperienced person such as myself.  I shared it with my children and they are looking forward to trying some of the things out.
I wasn't prepared for such a tiny book, but I suppose its all the better to throw in your get out bag.  I read through it quickly and realized that it was a great resource for any nature activity.  My 10 year old son picked it up and absolutely loved it.  He's excited to spend time in the woods trying some shelter, fire, and slingshot building.
I bought this book with a little awarness, that hopefully it might be better than the Archers books I have read recently. (Dont you think, that after readfin five of them in a row, all the people look the same???) The numberous stories, some of them based on the true stories, surprised me and had me turning the pages till 6am.  Unbelievable. Also a nice catch for those who like to read on their way to the office, school or just have here and there 3minutes to spare....
Lyrical prose, interesting snspshot of Indian culture, but non-linear storytelling is a little confusing.
The twists are not in the story line inasmuch as visiting events from different people's perspectives. The Indian caste system and the male dominated social order are overlaid and complicated by religious and political beliefs. A fascinating window into a complex society where West meeting East fails spectacularly when existing norms are ignored.
already read two times. masterpiece!
The only problem is that some of the content is outdated and not updated. Overall an excellent read for anyone who wishes to learn about survival tactics in any situation you can think of.
Great book. Has a broad range of things to help educate the novice adventurer. Useful things to store in the back of your mind in case you find your self in some precarious situations.
Haven't had the time to read it through yet, but the few chapters I did read were quite informative. Mr Wiseman, (is that his real name or just a very good description of him?), not only guides you through the survival steps but helps you understand why you are doing what you are doing, if that makes any sence.  I will update this handbook review when I am done, thats the reason for the 4 stars. Yes I am taking notes.
Still in the midst of reading this compilation of short stories. Mr. Archer is one of my favorite writers and I have read most of his books. I take my time with short stories so I can digest all of the writer's thoughts. I will ultimately finish this book while I read others.
there are some gems amongst these short stories!!!
Yes this order met my expectations.  It is a very good group of stories. I wish more of his short stories were in large print.  Thank you.
If you are a fan of short stories, Jeffrey Archer is a master. This is a good read with several of Archer's suspenseful endings.
Eye opener
I agree with those who found some parts slow and/or confusing, but I was stopped short over and over by passages that left me wondering how the author was able to craft descriptions in ways that every English teacher should use as exemplars when teaching figurative language elements! Scrumptious!
if you camp, hike or hunt or just in case , this is a small size possible life saver. Lots of survival do's and don'ts. I would recommend to any outdoor person.
The amount of information in this book is ridiculous.  My only complaint is how much info there is i guess, I will have to read it a couple times to be able to retain a decent amount. That sucks because it's about 600 pages. Good thing it comes with an index for easy location for any information in the book. Great for BOB.
Usually, books by Jeffrey Archer are hard to set down. The short stories make it much easier although I still had trouble putting the book down between stories. More good Archer reading.
This is an excellent book for a backpack reference on how to  get by when life goes bad. It's a book derived by the British special air service. ( special forces ). Remember your imagination is your best tool.
its a useful book to have as well as informative! I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in survival and living off the earth.
cool book, writing reviews can be annoying but I will say this is worth it. yea I have one done
In a real crisis can see me grabbing this and running for the hills. It would be nice to stick away in a waterproof safe, if I'm ever swept away by a tornado or stuck on a deserted island with nothing else to read.
A fascinating picture of life in an India of which I had no knowledge. A cleverly woven story which kept me intrigued and interested from start to finish.
Truly great writing. I have never been to India, and yet from the descriptions I feel that I am participating in a world that I can almost touch. Vivid, precise and limpid prose - I fall into the descriptions and become the child stepping into her bloomers - left foot, right foot - what a gift to be able to perform this magic. And the tragedy of the love which is obviously doomed - so sad.
GOOD
Worth reading just for the gorgeous use of words and sense of place. The storyline didn't captivate.
I don't usually like short stories but I have enjoyed these.  Jeffrey Archer has written another good book containing a variety of short stories that are entertaining .
I really liked most of the stories but a couple left me flat.  I would recommend it, however, because I am a real fan of Jeffrey Archer novels and shorts.
Jeffrey Archer's stories make you feel like you're really part of what's going on.  It's hard to be able to put it down.
Book is perfect for a backpack and full of useful info. Good price and fast delivery. Brand new and in as good a shape as you could want for what it is.
This is a much larger book than I expected. It is packed with useful information. I would definitely recommend it.
It tells you how to survive in the wild and tells you what plants is not to eat in the forest. Too many pages to read through and stil have not finsihed reading yet.
Jeffrey Archer is at his best when he writes short stories.  I am not usually a lover of this format but I love the way almost all his stories have a sting in the tail.  My only complaint is that I finished the book too quickly.  The style is so easy and each story just pulls you on the next.  Did not like all the stories, but most, especially "Crime Pays" and "The grass is always greener" were brilliant.  His use of language is exciting.  Hope he puts out another book of short stories soon.
Of the entire collection of short stories in this book, I liked the following best:  The End Game, Chalk & Cheese, & The Grass is Always Greener.  These 3 seem to be the favorites among readers, based on th various reviews I have seen prior to writing my own.  Their plots seem to be very real & interesting from start to end.  Stories with legal background were enlightening as you see the loopholes in the profession; interesting at first but the endings were quite so-so.  Others like Something for Nothing & A Weekend to Remember were simply ok while Too Many Coincidences was too long. Not all stories were excellent but overall, the book was one good & entertaining read.
A collection of short stories of mixed length, quality, and subject matter.  Most readers will like at least some of the stories, most of which have an English setting.  The stories range from a roughly one-page Arabian nights account ("Death Speaks") to a 78-page account of a man determining his true friends ("The Endgame").  The majority are based on true incidents, and some, e.g., "Crime Pays" and "Too Many Coincidences," involve people using their knowledge of the law for their own benefit.  I personally liked the last story, "The Grass is Always Greener," which points out that success and happiness are a matter of perception.
Great read!
Well written basic and intermediate survival info. Even if you know zero about survival it will get you up to speed and teach you mental, physical and practical steps to take in a multitude of scenarios.
I would recommend this book to anybody planning on spending some time outdoors. Not just the adventure types. This book can help you enjoy your outdoor excursions so much more.
...beware historical information and references. I discovered errors, which kind of takes away from the dependability and credibility of some of the "facts" now, IMHO. I hope the information is more reliable than the history of events.
This book is smaller than the other emergency survival books I have bought, but it's packed with a lot of good information.  I plan to keep it in our emergency bag.
A great book.  Covers many things that won't apply to me inasmuch as I've spend time in Africa, and don't intend to return.  Rest of the information has been done very well. A good book to have on hand when and if the need arises.
I liked it
This is an ambitious first book as it tackles issues as diverse as memory, class and gender discrimination, twins, divorce, death, and grief. Truly epic in scope, its unique structure can confuse at times as it jumps back and forth in time, but the author manages it well. There is a poetry to her language that evokes clear imagery and emotion from the simplest of descriptions. A superbly written novel that is ultimately tragic, but is able to achieve a startling degree of beauty and grace within that tragedy.
Just like the ad says-- good detail on a lot of situations.  More color pictures of plants would be nice.
The God of Small Things is a tragic story about twins growing up in a broken family and an India torn apart by conflicting ideologies. The twins only have each other to cling onto as their childhood comes to an abrupt end and they are forced to grow up.  This book is beautifully and poetically written. Roy is witty, imaginative and original. She draws you into a foreign world that by the end of the book feels like home because of her detailed and creative way of describing even the most mundane things.  This is the first book I've read from a child's perspective that has an authentic juvenile voice and language. This book is about the universal search for a meaningful identity, unconditional love and a secure place in the world and it will stay with you long after you have turned the last page.
I bought this for my boyfriend who is big into the survival techniques.  He really seemed to enjoy the book.
The writing is delightful. There are sentences you want to just take and frame. They glow with an inner meaning and shine up your brain as you think about them. I am a huge fan of Arundhati Roy anyway - she is a real human rights activist and a woman of conscience in the bitter struggles faced by women against paternalism. She is a wonderful speaker. Many of the central themes of social justice are expounded upon in this book in a refreshing and original manner. My bone of contention is this: the narrative, as is unfortunately fashionable these days, jumps around in time and is very very difficult to follow. That's two verys and very is an overused word. I'm a good reader but this one element interferes with my enjoyment of the narrative. Otherwise, a must read book.
It takes a while to get used to Roy's writing style, but once you do, this is a rich and powerful story told in a masterful and eloquent way. I read it twice - once for the story and a second time round to appreciate the vibrant and expressive writing style.
Though the content is hard, I recommend reading this book. It involves family and societal issues in India.  I only regret that it was a bit to elaborately written for me to understand.
Provocative novel with interesting pacing.
Beautiful writing, and relentlessly revealing......cannot put it aside..... Loved the references to the classics and the delightful way they were put to work in telling the story.
I read this book because it was part of a pairing with a performance at my local theatre.  The story is thoughtful and engaging.  This author is a gifted writer.  The writing flows through the pages while Roy provides characters that are more than what they seem.  The cultural aspects are very interesting.  Well deserving of the Booker Prize combining culture, love, politics and family.
Roy does something with language and storytelling that Ive never encountered before.  Although not the most enjoyable read, 'The God of Small Things' is incredibly moving and deeply poignant.  Roy hits on fundamental truths about humanity again and again with language that heightens the observations to brilliance.
The rave reviews are justified. This is an amazing novel that is both compelling and artistically interesting with the movement back and forth in time. A wonderful accomplishment.
and you will be amazed how much you learn when you are performing your NO 2. Wish there are more pics though.
At first this read took some time getting use to due to the style, but then I came to enjoy it. One thing I really love is when writers use repetition: it makes me feel like I'm part of the story, like it's an inside joke or secret the writer and I share. Toward the end of the novel, these repetitions are more apparent and profound. The last 40 or so pages of this book are 5/5.
I admit that I didn't choose this book for myself. It is a required text for the post-colonial literature class I'm taking. However, despite the fact that it is not a book I would have picked for myself, I found the book intriguing and exciting. The start is slow--the style of writing  and point of view (non-linear and stream of consciousness) can be off-putting at the start. The names are difficult at first, too, but after a while you get used to them. The book grew on me, though, as the mystery of what just happened to this broken family became more and more demanding of my attention. Don't be afraid to take notes--it'll help keep the characters and plot elements straight.
Same old stuff as in others but in a compact size. Easy to pack or put in a vehicle survival kit.
This novel about India in the mid-20th Century is extraordinary for its attention to detail and the highly original prose the author uses. Arundhati Roy manages to present the good, the bad, and the ugly of a country trying desperately to become modernized, while weaving through the plot the story of one family's horrendous experiences as they attempt to make sense of contemporary society.
I enjoyed the book, however, it was difficult to follow at times because of the way the author used flashbacks to tell the story. The names were unfamiliar to me so I had a hard time keeping the characters straight.  Once I got past that, I couldn't put the book down.  Very well written. M
A mix of practical information you may need in an emergency and less practical information if you are stuck in a jungle. Just flipping through it I learned facts like what foods you should and should not eat in the wild. Did you know there is a mushroom that is safe to eat on it's own, but poisonous with beer? Also a helpful list of what you should have in your car in case of an emergency. A bit slow on the shipping.
I didn't watch this movie, but my wife watched it ans was really interested in it and she liked the fact that they give quite a bit of information about how to survive.
A very well written book that has a devastatingly sad story line and the story remains with you long after the book is finished
"The God of Small Things" takes a look at the nation of India seen through the eyes of a fractured Indian family. It is a great work; you feel the changes swirling through the nation as felt through the lives of these individuals.
Good information in a little book. from know tying to plant identification. Get for backpacks and fanny packs too. Good book
I have been trying to upgrade our Home Emergency Kit. This "SAS Survival Handbook, For Any Climate, in Any Situation" seemed like a reasonable Kit addition. I have only read part of it and some of the information is good to know, some of it... well, I hope I never need to use it but I am glad to have some understanding about how to cope/survive!
What a great read! Book club read and I was a bit skeptic at the beginning. I grew to love the playful use of words. The back and forth in the story line! I loved the tears that could not come but the deep sense of sadness I had!  I cannot wait for the discussion with my girls at Unbound book club!
All relationships involve balancing needs, context, and personal characteristics.  Relationships get even more complicated by societal pressures and taboos. Set in India, this well written tale of love and relationships provides insights on the human condition, a place (India), and a family.  The flash back scenes slowly reveal the secrets that undergird the narrative.  A hard-to-put-down tale.
The authors writing style is enjoyable to read. The story really engrossed you. Making you feel intimate with the characters. A very good novel.
This thing is awesome.  It's great to thumb through every once and a while and filled with useful information.  Glad I bought it!!
The prose in this book in my opinion is flawless, detailed and gripping.  The characters are very much alive and it touches on a lot of themes that are relative to India and the struggles that the people go through.  The author has a distinct style of writing that stands out amongst most other fiction and is often poetic in nature.  Worth the read!
So unique and intriguing... Our Book Club was spent clarifying, agreeing and disagreeing. We all agreed that it is a clever book and one to be appreciated.
Though I had to read this book for a class I was taking, I would read this book again and again for myself. Arundhati Roy tells a story about real life that is unlike any other I've read.
This was a required book for an undergrad class. The author is a great writer and the book was of decent quality.
I was getting this book for a present. I expected the book to be regular sized. It's actually a pocket book and can fit in your palm. However, the information was very detailed. My boyfriend loved the present and said this survival book contains very important information even more than his other survival guides. Thus, don't judge a book by its size. Very satisfied with this purchase.
If I could write a book about survival bag building this is exactly how I'd write it I was in the marines for six years in the infantry and I thought I knew everything about field craft but only with the gear that was issued to me  the first part of the book was a nice refresher in the beginning then it has little tid bits that I did not know here and there with web sites to Order things I wanted from the book the author really knows a lot and is good about teaching it if I thought I was prepared before but I'm even more so now if you get this book use a high liter to outline stuff you need or want
If you intend to read this book, you ought to be appraised of the following: The great majority of the events take place over the course of about 4 days, viewed from a distance of 20 years.  This is difficult to sense at first because the time frame jumps around terribly and the space between foreshadowing and flashbacks becomes so fore-shortened and telescoped that it comes as a bit of a "eureka" moment to remember that the critical events are all occuring a few days apart.  Secondly, you may want to start a chart in the front of the book, as most people find the list of characters difficult to keep straight until you are about 30% done with the book.  As for the book itself - it's good.  It's beautiful.  In a well-written fashion it tells a compelling story set in an interesting culture of the crossfire of frustrated human desires that occurs in a single household, and the innocent and not so innocent victims wounded in it.  That is all.
Good book but I should have paid attention to the dimensions because it is a pocket sized edition. Tiny font on small pages but it was my own fault. Still a great buy.
I wanted a book that would provide more details for knots and snares. This pocket guide has given me more options than I expected but not as much detail as I would have liked. I had to practice more because of the lack of details but that has actually helped me remember better.
I am a novice Prepper, so frankly I was overwhelmed by the information in this book. I keep returning to it and always find new and useful information. Very useful if you are a hiker or any sort of outdoors person. Armageddon not required.
Good book, I learned a thing or two reading it, has a lot of material in it. It's pretty small but I find it convenient. Only problem I had was how long it took to receive it.
This is an  excellent  informative survival book, one to have in case needed. A must for you essentials needed items..
Beautifully written and refreshingly different.  The writing was very visual with characters that stay with you long after you've finished the book.  For people who love prose.
Arundhati Roy's use of language and structure is incredible. If you are looking for beautiful writing and complex, sophisticated structure, this is the book for you. It is not, however, a happy or even an especially hopeful book; this is a book about the bad things that happen to good people, exploring both interpersonal conflict and the bigger social and political issues that influence it.
This is the pocket version so it is small and easy to pack on hiking or camping trips. The Guide is full of good practical information one would need for surviving in the wild under a variety of climates and situations. This guide is filled with full color pictures and detailed diagrams to help illustrate the authors point.  I would recommend this guide to beginner and moderate outdoor enthusiasts who are looking to expand their survival knowledge.
Im in no way a survivalist, but do like to be prepared. The info in this book is quick and to the point. The book itself is tiny and I was a little disapointed when I got it. After thumbing through it and puting it in my go bag though, I really appreciate the small design. Fits perfect in a little side pocket.
I read this book for one of my women's literature classes, and it was one of my favorites. I particularly liked how the author gave a clear insight into the Indian lifestyle from the 1970s-1990s. There's a focus on the caste system, Syrian Christianity, communism, and British imperialism in this book. That being said, the forbidden love and extreme Anglophilia add to the interest level of this book. I did not care for the repetition of random phrases throughout the book or the twist of plot with the twins.
The book has a wealth of info but I didn't realize it was so small.  Makes it a bit difficult to read but the info is great.
Whether it is a zombie apocalypse, Mad Max, or the Hunger Games, this book will help us survive and thrive!
This is a wonderful story if you can stay with it. I've read quite a few books by Indian writers, but this one is certainly the "most" Indian I've read to date. Roy is tough to follow and hard to understand at times, but her command of language is amazing. The Indian way of running words together and random capitalization is a little weird at first, but after a while I kind of liked it. Her way of spelling words that children and non-English speaking people is good. A "Bar Nowl" name Oshua. I would have to say that the overall mood of this book is dark and sad. Poor Estha, how much more could a little boy take. "Little man with a spoiled puff. Little Man, he lived in a Caravan. Dum dum". He seemed to bear the brunt (even if imagined) of everything bad that happened. Hard life for a two egg twin. This will be a hard book to recommend. I think it will mean different things to different people. Some will be repulsed by the darkness. Disease, abuse, ignorance...but a beautiful love story underneath.
Since the general content and merits of Meier's biography of the Great Julius Caesar have already been more than adequatley examined by previous reviewers, I shall only say that of the several recent works available, this is the finest. Of particular interest to the reader may be Meier's musings on the existance and nature of historical greatness in the early chapters. One of my few reservations is that the prose seems to have lost something in translation, rendering the early parts somewhat lacking in elegance.
Although not for everyone I thought Meier did a thorough job on the life of Caesar and the late Republic.  At times his writing seems a bit tedious and overwrought, but well worth the read.  Meier digs deep into the forces  that shaped Caesar and his conflict with the late republic.  I enjoyed his  frequent commentaries and extrapolations when all is not clear.  I feel it  helps one to think and form their own opinion on the events at hand.  I  highly recommend.
This guide is packed to the brim with survival tips. It's smaller than I imagined though! It will fit in the palm of your hand, or pocket, but it doesn't mean it's not packed with great information.  It even has pictures, diagrams, and other great things to help you be a Bear Grylls impersonator.
Rich in language and color and characters. I've read this book twice, which I never do. That's how much I enjoyed it!
This book is an example of bland and long-winded historical biographies that you dreaded in high school; having read through it though, I walked away from it a better person.  Julius Caesar wasn't a cartoony super-hero type like Alexander the Great. He was sharp, action-oriented, and applied his incredible level of concentration on whatever he did. With these internal weapons, he fought every inch of his way; after all, being an outsider, nothing was handed to him. The author attributes Caesars role as an outsider, which gave him enough space to be detached, that eventually allowed him to rule all of Rome as a dictator. Caesars life resonated greatly with me due to the fact that his strengths seemed to have derived from his weaknesses: his vanity, insecurity and possibly even loneliness fueled his drive to be great. But in the end, it was the same qualities that got him to that top that eventually led to his tragic end. There are many valuable lessons to be learned in this book.
This was a hard read for me, there is a lot of history filled within these pages that just does not apply to Caesar but the entire backstory of Rome. It is a great book, just a lot of information to soak up. I would not suggest to a beginning reader on Caesar.
This book had some really interesting twist.  It's very based on India and it's culture but I didn't find it too difficult to understand as a foreigner.  The characters were remarkable.  Each their own real and individual person.  The story jumps around more than I had first wanted, but I quickly adjusted to it.  This quality of the book required me to be more attentive of what was going on and I soon came to love this dynamic.  By the end of the book I was breathless from all that happened.  This book allowed me to examine the small things of life and left me feeling more appreciative of their significance in this world.  I recommend this to all readers!
Nothing beats 'How to Stay Alive in the Woods' by Brad Angier, but this comes in as a close second. Easy to throw in a backpack, and chock full with a myriad of situations we hope to never get into. Well worth it!
It's very historically accurate and has a wealth of information that will keep you longing for more on the great dictator and his infamous civil war against the SPQR. However, as tends to be the case with many historical non-fictions, the book is slightly wordy, which disrupts the flow of reading. I would definitely recommend it, but only to those who already have a background understanding of the socio-political environment that was Rome c. 1st Century B.C.
The book is impressive in the number of stories it unfolds, the range of their indepth tales.  The book will be a difficult read to someone not raised in India. The advertisements, the products, the Mahabharata, the viciousness of caste-based politics, etc will not register in a foreigner's mind so easily.  It will be a difficult read for paperback readers who need sequence and explicit clarity. This book revolves around real people of a fictional realm. And they haunt its pages randomly. Without care for sequential unfolding of their life's drama.  Every character is elaborated upon, discovered and illustrated. The story is at times desiring reader's effort and patience. Take in the story as it comes without fighting its unique layout and you  would enjoy reading it. Not a must-read. But recommended. Not an "untouchable" book. But deeply touching.
I am a bit perplexed over R. Kamath's poor review of this book. I thought it was a valuable addition to the small but growing number of books about the great inequalities were dealing with in some places on this earth. Mr. Klamath, I suggest if everyone else is on the right foot when you are on the left, perhaps it is time to look within.
This is a great book for beginners and pros alike. It gives you the very basics to save you time in emergencies or just surviving the outdoors. Will keep this book handy for years to come.
After reaading this book, I have to say that at times it may be a hard read for the casual reader. This book is well researched and is very enlightning. However, the translation from German is a bit confusing at times. I would recomend it to someone who knows a little bit about Roman society and is somewhat more knowlegable on Ceaser already.
I have not read the book yet--it is for a November book club.  But it was received in excellent condition and in a timely manner.
I like it.  It is very informative and one could learn a lot from it.  I think it would be a good tool for a father and son activities.
Interesting and totally useful in any part of the world. If you're interested in being prepared, this is a "go to" necessity. I keep it on my coffee table!
I read this book for a college class based in India lit. Out of all the books we read this would have to be my fav. Its a easy read. The books flows nicely from one place to the next. We are told the story of the childrens mother in the eyes of a young girl as she comes back to see her brother. The whole background story was really well written, but the only problem I did have with it was that we are left at the end not really knowing what will happen to her brother at this older age. Otherwise its a great read to get a feel of India of the lifestyles of the people.
Very informative, would also like to see real pictures of the plants to be able to distinguish better. Other than that it's a good book for reference.  I hope I never get to use it.
Written in a non-linear sequence of events, this book truly frustrated me. After the first read, I understood it (as we were suppose to) and if I were inclined to, I would read it a second time and go "oooh." I give it four stars mainly because of my personal taste about non-linear chronology, and I didn't see what it had to do with my class (Understanding Religious Traditions in Multicultural America). While religion is a topic in this book, I felt it focused more on class/caste systems and different cultural expectations the characters had. Tragedies are everywhere in this book; I can't find a single happy ending, but the characters are vivid and distinct. Non-South Asians may have a hard time remembering the names at first.
Lots of useful tips on how to manage your way through the environment.  I would recommend for any camper or hiker.
In the exact condition described.  Happy to have gotten this book 1-2 weeks before my class started using it!! The delivery took a bit time to arrive.
I also had a hard time getting through this book.  I would read a chapter and put it down for a couple of days.  I was distracted by the style of writing (very poetic) and kinda grossed out by some of the characters. I didn't even like the twins who are the main characters.  There were several times when I didn't want to pick it back up to finish it.  I am so glad I did.  I finished the book several days ago and am still haunted by the ending. I feel sad about Rahel and Estha but it was Velutha and Ammu's relationship which was the most powerful for me.  How tragic and so beautiful. Definitely worth your time...
What takes place in this story is gripping; however, I found it very difficult to read.  Many times I almost put it down and then the next chapter would totally capture my attention.  I am so glad that I did finish it.  The capitalization, sentence structure, Indian words, backward spelling, etc. just diverted my focus on the book rather than adding to it.  For some readers, this might help portray images, feelings, etc.  For me it was just confusing.  And would someone tell me what Ammu lost when she lost her "locusts stand I"???  This phrase occurs several times and I realize that is what the twins are hearing, but I just couldn't get it.  This is just typical of so many of the confusing elements.  I have read several wonderful novels set in India lately (Inheritance of Loss, for example), however, I felt that what some call Roy's extraordinary narration, I found to be just gimicky and distracting.
I attend a monthly Preparedness meeting in my area where we discuss various topics presented by "specialists" in those areas.  In our last meeting this was highly recommended.  So now it's in my library too, and I look forward to reviewing it.  It surprised me that it was so small ... pocket size.  Nice.
this book is so long and detailed i don't know where to start. Gives good advice and my favorite part is showing poisonous plants and animals and where they can be found. I would recommend it
India has always seemd like an exotic, chaotic place to me. After reading this book, it has become more real; a country populated by people not that different from myself. Their ambitions, heartbreaks, and loves will be recognizable to almost anyone. I rarely find a book so riveting.
Ms. Roy is a very unusual writer. What an extraordinary look at cast, politics, love, loss, and culture. I can not say that I love Ms. Roy's writing, but her story is powerful and a must read. My wife however loves her writing. Ms. Roy takes analogy to a new level. As in other books that I have read on India, this book provides a glimpse into culture, love, and loss and will challenge your sense of justice.
This novel is beautifully poetic.  You get the impression the the author is luxuriating in language as much as she is telling a story.  The characters have the strange quality of being both familiar and exotic, especially the children.  The book moves backward and forward as if gathering up the momentum for the ending, which is somehow both jarring and disturbing, despite the fact that you know it is coming.  Altogether, this is an incredible first novel.
The prose may be a little hard to read but if you stick with this book, you will be rewarded by the end. Roy does an outstanding job in developing the characters and taking you into the children's world. I found myself having to go back to review earlier parts of the book as I read along. She lays out the story not in chronological order, but by the end everything will become clear and the patient reader will be satisfied. I can certainly understand how her style may annoy many readers. As many readers have said you may feel the urge to re-read the whole book after you finish it. 4 stars is a very good rating for me - I rarely give books 5 stars.
I am glad that I did. I just re-read this (found it while I was moving). I loved being transported to another culture that was so very alien to me that often times I had to re-read a passage 2-3 times. This is what I think reading is really all about.
I am a total novice at outdoors or survival techniques so I find this book very helpful. There is a index in the back of the book where you can quickly find whatever topic you are interested in.  There is so much info in this book its kind of overwhelming, but I'd rather have too much info than not enough. This book will be going in my B.O.B.
Got the book out of curiosity. Read it cover to cover. Now its in my bug out bag. Great info. Can't use all the info but for the most part very informative in urban situations and out in the field.
This book was captivating both in written style and story.  I fell in love with the characters.  This book really stands out among a lot of other books I have read.  The author really won me over with keeping the story going in an interesting way.  Lovely!
To say that Ms. Roy's use of language as an exploration of the individual and social psyche is simply a weak substitute for a lack of fluidity in story-telling is narrow and weak criticism. Yes, there are some elements in her narration that could use more editing, and tightening. And not enough is done to maintain the suspense of the fiction or to make the revelation of events any kind of revelation at all.  But is the exquisite use of language - its control, manipulation, an understanding of the subtle powers that lie beneath the surface of words, is all this not an un-teachable art in itself? Ms. Roy's genius is apparent like a blinding flash of light throughout the novel, especially in scenes where she describes the methodical, cathargic torture of the small, innocent and un-important ones by those who have been oppressed themselves. Once her words leave the pages of the novel  I believe they will take permanent residence in the eyes, ears, minds and hearts of the readers.  Fitzgerald had his Gatsby and Ms. Roy has her Estha and Rahel -  all victims of their dreams and society's displaced anger and civilized, structured hatred.
The book, Pacific Northwest: The Beautiful Cookbook, is indeed beautiful. The recipes by and large look lovely. I will spend time going over it in more detail. It is a tribute to the book that it has been around for 20 years and still being bought and reviewed.  I am the kind of cook who tends to use recipes now as a jumping off point, so all is fine, but I would suggest that the recipes, the writing and the photos be perused carefully. The very first page of recipes, the Manila Clam Chowder, clearly calls for peeled potatoes, and the photo clearly shows unpeeled red jackets. On page 73 the photo identifies Vancouver as the provincial capital. Uh, no. Victoria is the provincial capital. Oh well... we'll see what else turns up...
This is, as its title proclaims, a beautiful book.  It was highly recommended to me by a stellar home cook, and I am very impressed by both the exceptional recipes and the dazzling photographs of the prepared dishes.  It is a delight that virtually every dish is represented with a photograph.   _However_, the enormous coffee-table dimensions of this book make it unpractical.  I have a very large bookcase for cookbooks in my kitchen, with tall shelves at the bottom.  We have other bookcases, some with even taller shelves, throughout our house, home office and garage.  This book is too tall to stand upright with the spine visible, in any of our bookcases; it simply cannot be stored conveniently for regular reference, and thus must be laid flat, like an atlas or Rizzoli art book.  It takes up so much space, when opened flat, that it would occupy the entirety of many urban kitchen counters, leaving little space for food preparation.   On the other hand, since its gorgeous photographs encourage the reader to peruse the book at leisure, it is useful for inspiration, especially for those of us who use recipes as a starting point, then deviate radically from the actual instructions.  Or, if one has the patience and still remembers how, it is possible to copy out the recipes longhand, so that these promised culinary masterpieces can actually be prepared and enjoyed.   I would recommend this book, with its recipes for many splendid dishes, so long as you are comfortable with the aforementioned limitations.
I have not finished this book as it is not the version I originally read.  This one is more in depth but still tells the fantastic story of escape.  Written for older readers, this version portrays the life and escape of men who are able to find a way to dig and escape tunnel using a vaulting horse as their cover.  The ingenuity of these POWs never ceases to amaze and impress me.
Many of you have seen "The Great Escape" and this story that describes an escape from the same compound is just as exciting a story. An ingenious escape plan comes to fruition. Check out this great story!
It's been a while since I read a book with this much subtle and effective wordplay. Richly written, Roy indulges in words and uses contrast in language to great effect. This  aalong with the storyline structure (though at times confusing, it all comes together beautifully at the end) makes for a hyper-realistic, nuanced novel that is 'about' the medium of the written word just as much it is a story about the downfall of the family. As a character study, the book does not fail, though I found having to read between the lines a little bit more difficult toward the end of the novel, when the twins are grown. Overall, a book that requires thought, interest, and an appreciation of a story that takes time to develop.
This book has a great story-line, is witty and eloquent, and sometimes a little (OK a LOT) awkward.  It is one of the best books I've read but I wouldn't suggest it to children below 9 because there is cussing but only d---.  That's why I'm giving it 4 stars.  But 10 and up I thing that It's fine. :)
This book was a very good read and I reccomend this book to anyone who likes classic reads and enjoys the author Hugh Walpole
POW escape stories are almost always inspiring, and "The Wooden Horse" is no exception.  For the most part, it is relatively well-written, but it still has two major flaws.  The first is that the story of the third escapee is so abbreviated that it feels like it is entirely missing.  When they exit the POW camp, he seems to vanish into thin air.  He doesn't make his reappearance until the final pages.  Supposedly, he made it into Sweden without a hitch, but I still can't believe he didn't experience any tense moments, or make any interesting observations.  Williams could have interviewed him and given him at least one chapter.  The whole thing is more striking because the book is narrated in the third person.  The second problem is that some scenes feel overly fictionalized.  In particular, there is lots of dialogue which is questionable.  Some of it may even improve the story, but overall I think it mostly detracts from the story.  I begin to doubt later scenes.  Is the character of Larensen ( a sympathetic but rollicking drunk Swede who speaks English too loudly) real, or is he just comic relief?  And later on, did they really pull such a stupid gambit on the bridge guard?  (I won't give it away, though it is cliched) Shooting him with a Browning would likely have been quieter.  Despite all, "the Wooden Horse" is fairly enjoyable, though I would still rank this behind Brickhill's "The Great Escape" (1) and Reid's "The Colditz Story" (2).
I am going to weigh in very briefly on this book. It has a great story, but it is marred by Arundhati Roy's too frequent displays of mannerism. Many of the characters are very original and the story is full of credible twists and turns, but every thirty pages or so, Ms. Roy lapses into several pages of writing in  apretentious stream-of-conscience/surreal style that soon had me skimming toward the next section of narrative substance. Ms. Roy must have felt that she needed to show off how well she could write, but she ended up underscoring the fact that this was her first novel.
I used one of the snares in the book, and quickly snagged a racoon for dinner. though some of the things in the book are difficult, or at least much more simple than the book describes them as (the only reason I'd give it a four.) but overall, the book is the best.
Very nearly a journey to another land. So easy to envision and identify with each character, frequently laugh out loud, ache for unfairness. I was certainly sharply reminded of and grateful for every freedom American women have earned.
Roy leaves mouths agape; domino structure of language that she forges throughout the work speaks words of volumes to what it means to create. The literary paint thinner to get to the primer of the matter, The God of Small Things is behemoth in execution, rolled to knock the pins from the very structures that we thought, in modernity, cannot possibly exist. Roy opens our eyes to reveal that iniquity exists in the actions of both men and their systems of order and the light that she shows us is nothing less than brilliant.
This book contains comprehensive and solid advice for survival for days with little resource. It would be nicer if the book distinguishes survival tips geographically, in topics like edible plants.
Contains lots of good information, very useful and could come in handy and it's small size you can put in about any pocket you have
The book is full of good advices about survival. Who knows when one of these save one's life. A must for people who like wilderness and adventure.
This book covers nearly any type of situation that can arise.  It covers how to trap, clean, and cook animals and gives several options to construct a fire.  If you are lost in the wilderness with a knife and this book you will do just fine.  That being said, information is great, but most of the stuff in the book becomes much easier with practice.
Love the product. It did take a month and a half to get to me though. I forgot I even bought it it took so long. All the info I expected and then some. Perfect size (very small, or compact). All in all I'm happy. I didn't need it right away anyway.
The book's greatest asset is the beautiful use of language. The various emotions in the story are nicely sketched with the best use of words. The character-sketch is strong. I also find the author's comic style and sense of humor interesting. The one aspect that I can think which made me rate it 4 instead of 5 was its pace. Apparently, I felt that the plot was patchy. There were occasions when I found it to be absolutely perfect while at other times I found it losing its grip and becoming a drag.
Some of the recipes are duplicates from the Italy, The Beautiful Cookbook, but a treasure none the less. Thank you!
A large, attractive book that I gave as a gift.  Nice pictures of the food and the recipes looked interesting and not too difficult.
Clancy proves he is still a master of prose, especially when it comes to battle, espionage, and technical details. However, this book also shows a glaring weakness carried over from his previous books - Ryan worship.  It's somewhat nauseating how Ryan's friends and enemies alike are constantly complimenting him in one way or another.  Their generous estimates of him are generally obseqious and ham-handed. More subtlety would be in order here.  Another weakness - the occasional thoughts in italics, which sometimes sound too forced.  Apart from that, the storytelling is gripping; his seemingly effortless recounting of the narrowly failed attack on Israel, for example, evokes heroism, bravery, courage, and miracle.  His explanations of such intricacies as the fabrication of a nuclear weapon are immensely readable.  If only the characterizations were better done!
Poetic and simply written, "The God of Small Things" skillfully evokes a mood and atmosphere that is often hauntingly beautiful.  However, the plot is melodramatically predictable and a bit cliched.  One can say the same of the generally one-sided characters.  Still, among its florid metaphors (which are, at times, bogus)there lies some deep human truth for which the novel is worth reading.
A. Roy has for sure a very original style...Her novel is a like a puzzle, and we find different pieces of the story in every page ... Very well written...
Roy's critically acclaimed novel, The God of Small Things, is not an easy read about another culture.  There are few surprises in the story of this novel.  What there is, however, will force you to keep reading until you have absorbed every word of this lyrically-written novel. The book is the tale of two twins, Rahel and Esta. Rahel has returned to America to see her brother, who she has missed for years since he was sent to live with their father after the death of their cousin, Sophie Mol.  Seeing India, and Esta again after so long, brings Rahel back to the weeks prior to her cousin's death.  In recollecting these times, she begins to understand how the caste system has shaped her existance, and comes to an understanding of the 'love laws,' which dictate who we should love, and how much. This book is beautifully written and should be appreciated.
This is one of those books that you really want to put down after the first half--but you keep on going because something within you tells you to read.  The God of Small Things is extremely poetic and not for those who want a quick start and finish.  Roy forces you to asorb each word and reflect on its validity within the novel.  The mundane is beautiful and complex, and the characters are well-defined, and well, somewhat confusing. But,  somehow, Roy brings it all together towards the end, and you leave the book feeling refreshed and moved.  Admittedly, I almost broke down and cried at the end.  Does anyone else think Roy is reminiscent of Toni Morrison?
This is a fairly good survival guide, but has a decided British twist. I never imagined that a tea brewing kit would be considered a survival must have.  More on survival shelters and emergency food would have been helpful.
action
This is an amazing work - for an author of any age - and a breathtaking accomplishment especially for someone so young. If you loved Toni Morrison's Jazz or Beloved, this work has similar sense of history and humanity. I truly loved it.
God of small things is a brilliantly crafted novel that combines scintillating prose with a devastating commentary on the state of Indian society. The author, however, in my estimation, takes on too much in one bite, and her critique of the culture, while it strikes true, leaves a bitter after taste...there is no redemption or goodness that one can draw upon in the end.  The novel left me feeling that things were hopeless. It is true that the very power of the novel lies in the devastating criticism of a society mired in senseless tradition, but I was left with the feeling that the author used every tool at hand to shock and disgust rather than understand.
One of the best novels I've read.  Such a profound story-telling and believable plot I had suspected that this is a true story.  It wrenched my heart to read some of the parts - when The God of Small Things was brutalized, and when Estha was parted from Mother. Anyway, the language confused me a lot, probably because of the context and culture I'm not really familiar with.  The story got better as I went along.  Also interesting to read how things are as seen by the twin.  Frank and sometimes funny, but always delightful I read the book twice just to recapture the enjoyment of reading it.
Good book but it takes a long time to develop the plot.  Once everything comes together it is very good. Nothing like the movie in several ways.
I've read this before and still like it.  Will keep it in my library.  Love Tom Clancy books (to bad he died) don't like the guys writing as Tom Clancy
A enjoyable book to read if you like suspenseful spy novels by Tom Clancy.  It follows the same type plot as most of his.
The movie may be better than the book. A lot of the action is via telephone which isn't as exciting as other Clancy novels. Also the first half of the book is largely focused around a plot line that doesn't really connect with the second half.
was just disappointed that it took so long to get to me, which you can't really expect more, but if i knew that before hand......like the book and it was described the way it was.
The general chapters on water, food and shelter are great. I doubt everyone needs to know how to survive an arctic adventure and which tropical fish will poison you, but those chapters are fun to read. If you plan on using any of the skills written about or pictured, they won't do you any good unless you try or practice some first. Ever try to start a fire by rubbing sticks? It takes a lot of effort and time to get it right. In a survival situation if you haven't practiced at least once, then you are behind the eight ball. Take some of these skills and practice with the kids, challenge your friends at a BBQ, do something fun with them. Knowledge may be power, but skills put food on the table and heat on your feet.
Not his best novel, but far from his worst. Was in really good shape for its age too.
good read
Good read.
Arundahti Roy's first novel is a journey into a mysterious country, filled with colours, smells and stories.  The poetry of her prose is intoxicating and allows this reader (and hopefully you too) to journey beyond her small New York apartment to distant lands. The God of Small Things is truly a little miracle and we have to thank Arundhati Roy for having brought it to us.
Tragic story of the triple murder of the authors ex-wife and 2 children by their new step father. Heart breaking story but interesting and scary insight into the Jehovah's Witnesses religion. Recommend.
I was 12 and they were two of my best friends. Your book helped me to finally begin to heal.
This is the heart wrenching story of the murder of Kim Anderson and her two children. Kim, a devout Jehovah's witness lost her life at the hands of her husband, also a member of that faith community. The story is told with courage and compassion by James Kosteliuk, her first husband and the father of the two children. While the trigger was pulled by Jeff Anderson, some blame must be laid at the doors of faith communities where religious principles come before the safety and well-being of its women and children. This book tells of a tragedy on many levels, but most importantly it reminds us of the violence that women and children continue to face in that safest of all places: their homes. Riveting and disturbing at the same time.
While necessary for the story line, the scientific details were difficult reading
I hope I never need this.  Its a good size for having on hand.  It covers most normal scenarios.  However, it does not seem to cover surviving the aftermath of a nuclear blast.  So, it did not cover everything I wanted.  Its good to have around, but I'll still need something that covers surviving after a nuclear attack. (No, it didn't cover the Zombie Apocalypse either, but just watch "The Walking Dead" a few times and you'll have that covered.)
This book is very helpful if you plan to go to obscure parts of the world. This book maybe isn't best for "The great northwest", or Washington State Mountain regions. I also wasn't able to find basic how to instructions for using a compass. Yes, I know how a compass is supposed to work, but what about the little numbers on the edges and the little line markers... Well, other then that It's packed FULL of survival information.
Slow going but interesting insights into other countries views and plans. The hatred expressed and subratudes explored should make us all wake up to global reality
Early Clancy always a good read
I watched the movie many years ago when I was much younger but never read the book.  Now that I have read the book I realize how much I missed.  Well written but a little slow to really get going.  Great job with the lead up but somewhat slow.  Overall a great read.
If you are the survivalist or just a camper this is a must have book.  It gives detailed accounts on almost every thing you could imagine.  It arrived in the condition as was described.  There were no surprises.  The description was accurate.  I will do future business with the seller.
I have many of the survival series books and this one is probably one of the best in my collection.  Easy to read and has many illustrations.
Arundhati Roy has created a masterfully framed novel in which she explores the inner-emotions and events of an unconventional Indian family.  Victims of circumstance, the individual members are forced to return home to each other and find that they no longer are a part of the society in which they live.  Assumed to be living out the curses of the generations past, the twins the novel is centered around try to come to grips with the life they had led.  Roy spins the story through flashbacks keeping the reader enthralled throughout the entire book.  Piece-by-Piece the story of the forsaken family is revealed as Roy creates the setting through her wonderfully descriptive words.  Roy uses her poetic talents to narrate a story so simple, and yet so intricate the reader's mind will be challenged.  If nothing else, Arundhati Roy created a novel that most would enjoy.
This is my favorite of all the Clancy books, but the Kindle version has a problem: within each chapter, Clancy uses "scenes" to go from one character/situation to another, which is a very common and popular way to write. In the print version, every "scene" is separated by the next "scene" by a blank line/space to indicate the end of one scene and the start of another. The Kindle version has eliminated those blank lines and simply runs one scene into another as simply a new paragraph, causing a jarring and confusing transition from one scene to the next. Very annoying.
Great overall book. Would be 5 stars, but the ending was rushed and somewhat disjointed.
One of Clancy's better ones.  Rumor has it that the movie version got delayed until after 9/11, lest it inspire bad guys.  Maybe it did.
It is extremely thorough, and its great for me when i'm out hiking in the back-country. There is no replacement for practicing hands on skills but this book is a great start.
I like this book and its packed with louds of info. It has one problem its small. So for those that have glasses. Well buy it.
Great Clancy book, much better than the movie
I love the Jack Ryan series
Great book on the SAS survival techniques. If you read other survival books, this one will have the same information. However, this is better written and the drawings are a little more informational. Has several climates shown and updates a few older items, like the solar still. Real world, solar stills are not going to do much, so find a better way if you can. Book is a good one to have on your shelf and read from time to time. Larger size will probably not fit in the survival kit, unless you carry a larger one. Recommended to my friends and to you all.
A friend of mine is really in to this stuff and loaned me the book.  Although I don't buy into a lot of it, it does really make you think and brings up a lot of interesting points.  I found this to be just may be the book toput into your modern day survival kit and pray that our laptops still work! lol  I love reading comments that if such and such party is elected to the the government that this person is going to move to another country! ITs kind of a funny book but not intended so.
A very well acted and good story.
A great read! The story really flows. The scary thing for me is that at the time this was written, it seemed that it was a very plausible for something like this to happen in the world. Now with technology the way it is today, it's really,really scary. Enjoy it, I really did!
Full of factual and scientific accounts of events and scenarios. True to a Tom Clancy read!
A good follow on to the Jack Ryan series. A good read. I recommend it
My all time favorite book. One of the books that got me into reading. Forget about the movie, read this book instead!
This was a great book. I've already read it and when I have down time I go back and skim through it. It's just a overall good interesting book, even if your not into the whole "survival-SHTF-prepper" stuff.
Good information on lots of regions. Wished it had a bit more medical know how included. Overall, a good purchase.
enjoyed
Very good. Usual quality by this author
Good plot and the possibility of something like it could happen with all of the countries that now have nukes. Clancy is a superb writer but sometimes gets carried away with details.
It is not English; it is not any language that has a comforting recognizable name. Yet you have heard and spoken it somewhere someday...and it comes back to you in snatches in those fractionally resurrected memories  of childhood dreams and nightmares; fears and imaginings. Somebody asked me  how I liked the book. I was stumped. How does one describe one's response  to a book like this? That one enjoyed reading it? I, for one, feel bizarre  saying something like that. All I can say is that I felt an unnamed sadness  seeping through my bones as I read it, that left me so empty with longing  when I finally finsihed it and had to get back to my own life. I left part  of me in Ayamenem.
very good read
arrived as advertised...
This is a beautifully written book that describes the lives of two dizygotic twins and their extended family. Set amidst the exotic splendors of India which Roy so excellently describes, this novel is a wonderful  read.  I loved the language of the book and it's "stream of  consciousness" form which included isolated and make up words.  Some  readers may find this annoying, but I found that it greatly enhanced the  quality of the novel.  My only problem with the G of S Things was that it  is rather slow at the beginning, but stick it out.
I read this book during a flight delay; It was the first time that I didn't mind sitting for hours at the airport. I consumed this book like a delicious dessert; Towards the end I slowed down my reading even more  hoping to prolong the experience. English is not my first language and I  have no expectation of how the English language should be used. I only know  that the author's play of words did not frustrated me. I liked the way that  tragedy and joy were treated the equally and how nothing was spelled out in  obvious terms. It was less of the plots or characters but rather the  storytelling itself that cativated me. The only other books that I had ever  enjoyed this much were written by Herman Hesse; Not to say that they are at  all alike. It could have just been me and my mood at the time of reading.  After all, this is just another book-shape hole in the universe.
A story which only notice things, not judge them. It reminds us, the small things, which could have changed our life, in their own special way.
Title really says it all.  The info is great and the content is thorough.  However, I find myself fearing for the structural integrity of the book itself.  It's a bit flimsy.
Great read for anyone who camps, hikes, etc... Written by what appears to be an expert in the field (former SAS soldier). Has everything you can think of for survival just about anywhere in the world. From catching game to what plants are edible... On the other hand, although the pages are durable (thick, synthetic type text book like), the binding fell apart after one week. Maybe it had to do with humidity? The glue just stopped holding and the pages separated from the spine.
This book should have been much shorter in my opinion. In an effort to educate readers on how things are in reality, Mr Clancy describes long conversations with endless boring detail. It improves value not at all, but makes reading very hard. Every little incident along the way gets blown out of proportion. Shame,because it is a very good story. Much like Les Miserables, the abridged version should be much better.....
I found this book to be written by a professional individual. It is very enlightening and informative.  I enjoyed thumbing thru this manual(book)to get the over all outlook that the author is trying to convey.  The sections I did make the time to read,I enjoyed and found educational.  I am proud to say this manual will be in my survival(get bag).  I would have rated the manual 5 stars instead of 4 stars but I am yet to finish reading it,I am 2/3rds thru at the time of this review.  D. Wright Seattle,WA
Good book and interesting.  However, it takes overly long to get going with the fast paced action of Clancy's earlier novels.
the Sum Of All Fears, Debt Of Honor, and Executive Orders are the trilogy of books  that bring Jack Ryan full circle and comprise the best work that Clancy ever created.
This is an international favorite and a nicely compiled, well-written work. It is easy to read, authoritative, and appealing. I would place it next to the Boy Scout Fieldbook as a great teaching and learning resource. But see Olsen's "Outdoor Survival Skills" and the "USAF Survival Handbook".
This guide is small, like half the size of a regular library book. But that just makes it easy to pack, I wish it was a little bigger though, that's why I gave it 4 stars. It's packed with 334 pages of useful information that may just save your life.
Very good Author
Clancy always manages to weave a tangled web in his stories; sometimes I forget the characters.
Excellent book, complete with pics of plants, animals on glossy pages. Very exhaustive list. The only thing I'd say negative or if I could suggest an improvement to the publisher is in the BINDING. If it was in spiral or comb, it would be a lot easier to keep the book flat open while you follow the instructions. This book is HARD to open flat, a bit of an inconvenience but it shouldn't stop you from buying it, if at least you err on the side of caution, as I do because of hurricanes here on the east coast.
Well written and easy to follow.  I have been camping many times, but this puts things in a different perspective. Might be a life saver if you throw this in your BOB (but go ahead and read it first).  I would pair this with a better reference book on plants to eat(with pics) and you should be set for any SHTF situation.
it is very amusing for me to write something about a book that is so popular...who reads until here ? I think it is a very beautyful cruel real tale about the conflict between the "so called values" and love...this is what she describes high emotionally, often painfully for me  to read...it toughed me very deep, so that I had to read it slowly...it is  a book about the value of love... nothing more nothing less. I do not think  that it's the best(if I would like rankings) book I've ever read, the  characters represent ideas(very greek) and so they are kind of static...but  it was one of my turning points, and to read it was a worthful experience  for me at that time read it if you want...you may like it
WELL WRITTEN AND QUITE A PAGE TURNER BY TOM CLANCY. A REAL LOSS WITH HIS DEATH,READ AS MANY OF HIS BOOKS AS YOU CAN
I bought this book on a lark a few weeks back, and it's great. However when I unboxed the shipment I was rather taken aback by the book's dimensions! It is 4.7" x 3.3" x 1", which is about 75% of the size of the typical trade paperback. To be clear, I was not misled, only lazy because I never bothered to look at the book's dimensions which are clearly published on the Amazon product page. However because this is such an easy thing to overlook I wanted to mention it in the review.  For its size, this book definitely packs an enormous amount of information, covering everything from camp setup to medical treatments. Of course, the advantage of such small dimensions is the ability to carry it along in your backpack!  In summary, it's a great reference book, and well worth the purchase.
I originally read this novel a few years ago for a college course, but since that time I have re-read it twice and recommended it to several friends. First off, a disclaimer: Don't read this book if you don't like  words.  Roy can be quite verbose at times. Okay, now that we're past  that... "The God of Small Things" is a lush, hypnotic journey  that is well worth taking.  This is a book to savor, ponder, and reference.  Roy tackles the tough issues as well as the trivial issues with great  style and soul. A very visual and satisfying read.
So much better than the abbreviated/entirely different version made into the movie! While Tom Clancy definitely can get long winded and very detailed in describing the subtleties of every characters thoughts I found that within a few more pages the confusion was sorted out and it all fell into place. I would have given 5 stars but for that.
My book club chose this book as selection of the book and the reviews were generally favorable. Most of the members, including myself, were drawn to the tragic richness of the character devlopment and the wonderul use of  language. Although the abscence of a traditional plot line did throw me at  first, the brilliant energy and stamina involved in the writing more than  compensated. Sort reminded me of Faulkner teaming up with Dr. Seus.
Book is pretty good very detailed and easy to get around. Nice pictures and it was written by a former sas soldier. cant go wrong for the price. Also came a day earlier than expected. kudos.
Ok, I received my SAS guide, but I'm not sure what's in it. Reason? I'm older, therefore, my eyes can't quite see what's on the pages.  The book is SO small (must have been designed for a 'little person's' backpack) and the print so small that I will have to carry a magnifying glass with me just to make use of the info.  That's probably not going to be too convenient in an emergency situation. Overall, It's probably very content-rich, I just can't SEE IT!
Exciting as any Clancy book for the most part. The making of the bomb became a little tedious, though. The rest of the book was well done
After you finish reading a book and you see the taste of the book is still lingering in your mind you know the book you have just read is different, yes different from the others. This is the way I felt when I finished  reading "The God Of Small Things". "The God of Small Things"  is a very stylised and exotic novel. It is very different from the  conventional type and breaks all barriers. It is brilliantly plotted and  gives the reader a sense of agonising sadness and inevitability. Yet  nothing can prepare you for what lies in the heart of it. Every page is a  discovery within itself. The book really contains many themes such as Love,  Madness, Hope and Infinite Joy. There is no particular evidence but the  themes can be felt and understood when the whole novel has been read over  and over again. It is truly a masterpiece.
Another great Tom Clancy classic with Jack Ryan set in the aftermath of the cold war  -  an exciting book which wasn't easy to put down
Takes about 500 pages (it was pretty pedantic up to that point), but hummed after that. Read on and off for a month the first half; the second half took a couple of days.
Like all  of the Clancy novels I have read,  it was outstanding. I gave it four stars. That was because I felt that it was excessively wordy, spending too much time on long passages of descriptive material on characters I felt were extraneous to the plot.  However, that said, it was very worthwhile read, such that I would buy any new  Clancy novel without hesitation.
very good reading. clancy is an exclnt writer and i would like to see aluisting in order of the ryan booiks
Pretty decent book learned a few things already. For the cos vs the amount of info you get it's a great buy.
Like another reviewer said, this book does need some editing.  Aside from that, there's not much to complain about.  I've read this book almost front-to-back at least once, with plenty of re-reading about the important parts like creating your kit and identifying food (I've used the guide already to pick mushrooms, although I would prefer having a specialized book in identifying food, considering how risky it can be).   I'd have to say I'm very pleased with the book and would buy it again if I had to, although I think I will supplement this book with a food guide, because you should never rely on a single object or source of information for everything, even if said object or source is outstanding.    Plenty of other reviews have mentioned the contents, but if anyone wants to know if it contains a particular area that isn't mentioned, just comment and I'll get back to you.
I found that this book lacked on plot a little, but being a fan of the words themselves as well as a storyline, I certainly felt that it made up in description. Arundhati Roy writes in a style which is fully conscious  of the fact that it is literature; sentences paragraphs and chapters are  constructed with such delicacy that the novel could be confused with poetry  of long lineage. The culture discussed is discussed in an intelligent  way, and the relationship between twins is impossibly presented in  beautiful realism, with two unique, inextricable characters created within  Rahel and Estha. I enjoyed it greatly, but it seems so genre unspecific,  it is a voyage into the unknown which will be kindly rewarded. Warning:  don't read if a climactic ending is all important to you.
Miss Marple is on another vacation courtesy of her nephew, the mystery writer Raymond West.  On this outing, she is spending a week at Bertram's Hotel in London.  Bertram's is one of the few places that has maintained its elegance and not given in to the mod fashion now sweeping London.  The staff, the food, the setting is all very genteel and charming, much as it was in pre-war days. However, something is not quite right at Bertram's.  The police turn up checking out a clue that a series of well-planned robberies in the city is somehow connected to the stately hotel.  Chief Inspector Davy is the detective in this one and he welcomes Miss Marple's keen acumen.  We are introduced to an assortment of English ladies and gentlemen staying at the hotel which serves as a gathering place for suspects much as the country estates did in Christie's earlier works. Although this is slower than many of her other works and has a rather complicated conclusion, it is a good look at the changing times in English society and another wonderful visit with Miss Marple.
In a nod to the lifestyle in her earlier books, Miss Marple takes at a vacation at a hotel that perfectly reproduces pre-war life. Too good to be true? Even in her old age, Miss Marple is caught in a mystery.  Perhaps not the strongest Miss Marple, but with many of the elements that made her a great character. It is interesting how much the focus on her age creates an air of melancholy around the book. Miss Marple becomes a pre-war artifact in her own right. I suspect that this aspect alone would make this book particularly interesting for people interested in Christie biographic material.
Would recommend especially for military men women and families.  Great detail although foreign names at points confusing to follow story line
His characters are memorable.  He tells a great story.  He includes tons of details that are remarkable realistic.  It is hard to believe that Clancy actually makes it enjoyable to read a 912-page book.  The basic story is of the discovery by Palestinian terrorists of  a stray Israeli nuclear bomb which is reconfigured as a hydrogen bomb and placed outside a SuperBowl game in Denver.  But this story line weaves in and out of other subplots.  The story is carried out in meticulous detail and with frightening results.  Very enjoyable.
This book was great, although at times it could get boring-mainly in the beginning-an author has to lay his foundation though, doesn't he? Anyway, it was intense and I really enjoyed it, I can't wait to read another Jack Ryan novel.
Nice diversion for a quick, light read. I was surprised by the ending. For my first Miss Marple read, not bad.
Jane Maple visited Bertram's Hotel in her youth and now, in old age, she is back for a two week stay. Amazingly, all the good things she remembers still exist with a few unobtrusive improvements (central heating, for example). How can a mid twentieth century establishment maintain nineteenth century luxury? There is of course more than meets the eye. The story moves slowly, but builds steadily to some twists turns and ,of course, murder. The plot is not credible and Dame Agatha relies too much on coincidence, but this tale orovides a pleasant evening's entertainment.
Things aren't what they appear to be.
After watching several series based on Agatha Christie's books, I decided to read couple and I enjoyed them.
I'm a fan of Jack Ryan stories, and I wanted something I can read on my Kindle.  This is a good novel in the Tom Clancy tradition, and I enjoy having it as one of the books on my Kindle.  BTW, the book is better than the movie.
this book is excellent not because of the plot nor because of the story. it is excellent, rather, because it is a lyrical masterpiece.  the language shimmers with beauty.  the entire book is a beautiful, intricate poem.  i  was slightly disappointed that there was no story per se but the writing  was so good that i had to forgive the lack of story.  it is an excellent  read if you are looking for poetic writing.
I like the format I did not realize that the book is small, actually pocket sized. You could actually have this book in a survival kit. I would pull off some pages that are pretty basic. i have to say I ahve not finished reading. Browsed, now going through throughly. Overall worthwhile
The SAS Survival Guide is well written (plus/minus a few undefined "British" terms, but they are good for a little comic relief). This tome contains little fluff, numerous, easy-to-follow diagrams and illustrations (I copied a few, quick tent & snare-trap designs) to add to my grab-&-run (bug out) bag. There are a several excellent suggestions for chemicals to add to your emergency kit that I haven't seen before, and some fishing tips worthy of note. I read this piece in a single night and then spent a couple of hours adding from it to my personal survival notes: Bravo!
I found this book far more enjoyable to read than Mors Kochanski's book.  Measurements are in dual units, chapters on trapping, fur/hide treatment, edible plants, hunting, fishing, etc were just far more complete than the Mors book.  The plant section included color images which I feel make identification far easier.  The Mors book was horribly edited, disjunct and unmemorable.  The Mors book does seem to cover more extended living topics like basket weaving.  Some of the content feels rehashed from other sources, like from a boy scout handbook.  Coverage of rope making feels to me like it was ripped right out of the Mors book.  The map usage section is just abysmal.  There is not one aspect of actual orienteering that is covered.  Fire is such a critical part of survival, I would like to have seen some more depth to the coverage of the topic.  These are the reasons I knock off a star.  But in closing, it does deliver so much useful information at an extremely reasonable price, I would definitely recommend it as a book to read and to keep as a reference in whatever preparedness kit you may have.
enjoy all Agatha Christie  Thank you for offering them, A
Audiobook  Miss Marple visits a hotel she used to love and finds it has changed beyond repair. This was a BBC production so there was an entire cast with sound effects. Nice change from the normal one narrator type audiobooks. 4 out of 5 stars.
I love Agatha Christie's Miss Marple's tales and "At Bertram's Hotel," the mystery delivered the suspense.
There was a little more wear on the cover that I would have liked, but I DID get it for an amazing price and my boyfriend was very satisfied to receive it on his birthday. Win-win. I would use this seller again.
The Sum of All Fears follows Jack Ryan as he fights from Washington to stop a nuclear crisis started by a band of Palestinian terrorists.  To make things worse, he is faced with a president blinded by emotions.  As he tries to defuse the crisis, he wil face problems like none of his other adventures.  Clancy does a great job with the story, and the characters are very believable, as always.  The only bad thing about this is the pacing.  The story is a little slow, and it feels like two-thirds is devoted to setting up the climax, but after the bomb goes off, it is impossible to put down.
As with all of Tom Clancy's works the reader is sucked in right from the beginning to a multi-level story of intrigue and mystery. This one brings the Cold War era into focus as it deals with political events and players who must deal with a nuclear release in the United States by a terrorist group. The reader is easily led through a number of scenarios as to which country could have done the deed that ends with a President who has his finger on the button to destroy what he believes is the country and person who took thousands of lives in his country. One man stands between him and that mistake and he has to find the courage to stop the chief executive from making the mistake that could start the world on a forever ending nuclear war. The ending to the story has really a suprise twist, one that the reader could never have suspected. It's an excellent work and I suggest many readers would thourghly enjoy reading this book.
A story that is well written and uses realistic characters.  Tom Clancy has done his research and has composed it in a highly digestible and enjoyable format.  Great fiction and lots of suspense.  One of the better fictional military story writers.  Lots of intelligence and military details.  Clancy has polished the techno-thriller genre and taken it to a new higher standard.  I've read all of the Jack Ryan-related stories: Hunt for Red October, Cardinal of the Kremlin, Rainbow Six, Clear and Present Danger, Red Storm Rising, Debt of Honor.  They are all great.
This is a well-written, engaging mystery that I very much enjoyed reading.  Miss Marple is very good, but no one will best Hercule.  The book is entertaining throughout, and well worth reading.
Interesting reading
Nice read. Not the best of Christie, but interesting.
The book was somewhat smaller than I realized.  I had a bit of difficult time reading the small print in the book.  But, other than that it was a good survival guide.
This was a very good read, but not the kind of book you read and your an expert at surviving in the Artic Shelf. Excellent information, the only two areas I could see improvement on were, shelter building, and edibles. With only a few ideas on temporary shelters, I felt it kind of lacking as that situation could very well be in order if survival is threatened. Also the author's suggestion of eat and "pray" method leaves a little to be desired, but it seems to have worked for him, and he has very high credentials. Overall though, one of the most comprehensive survival books out there, but don't leave it all to one book. Supplement this guide, with shelter building, and a book solely on wilderness edibles to make yourself the most rounded survival instrument you can be. Also in regards to my opening sentence, you WILL NOT be an expert on any survival book, unless you try the techniques outlined, before you need them!!
This was, I must say, my first Tom Clancy read. The plot was quite good involving a missing nuclear device from Israel;  Terrorists of Arab and German extraction as well as a Native American accomplice. Many side plots including a duel between a U.S. and Soviet submarines. The book definitely shows how a real War could escalate out of control due to much confusion. Alot of good spy activity between the major players. The characters were well developed. The hero was CIA Deputy Director Jack Ryan. For my taste, though others may disagree, I found him to be a bit too much of a good guy and superhuman to be believable.  I liked the book and found it to be a good -but even with the fine plot, at 914 pages- it was a ponderous read.
Seemed a little dry compared to the authors usual Miss Marple mysteries.  I was disappointed that Miss Marple didn't seem to play as large a role in this plot.  But all in all I enjoyed it as it left you guessing as hers normally do.
Fun read. Interesting characters. I will read another in this series.
It is a very good Christie book. I like Agatha CHristie and obviously not alone in that. If you like her books you will like this one as well.
I read the book for the first time in several years and re-discovered how good of an author Tom Clancy is. The writing style is engaging and keeps you involved in the plot as the different characters are developed. This kind of book is a great read for a lazy summer vacation.  I didn't want to stop reading as I followed the Jack Ryan character to the end of this adventure.  Highly recommended reading.
Sum of All Fears begins with a nuclear bomb that was found by a Palestinian terrorist group seeking a way to strike revenge on the United States. The terrorist group decides to deliver the bomb during half time of the Super Bowl. Meanwhile, C.I.A. hero, Jack Ryan must face controversies with other high-ranking employees of the nation's government.   All in all, this book is an incredible read. Although the book has certain moments that are exceptionally slow, in the end it is completely worth your time. There were times when I just had to take a break from this novel, but once I got past those slow spots the plot thickened and something really interesting happened. It makes you think of the unthinkable. There are some things that, we as Americans, feel safe enough that we don't have to think about, and this book brings on some of our worst fears, which is one of the main reasons why I thought it was so interesting. It's not one of the best books I've ever read, but it is certainly not one of the worst. If you are interested in political/military thrillers, and love to be on the edge of your seat throughout a book, then this is one novel you shouldn't miss.
In the movie, the producers made adaptations to fit the story in 2 hours. If you want more details about it, read this book!
This book has a ton of great info, a lot of which I personally learned in the Army. There is so much that I didn't know or was no too familiar with also. If you do a lot of camping or backpacking, this book would come in handy. Just make sure you actually try and practice what you read. You don't want your first time to be the time that your life depends on your skill.
I was truly impressed by the spectacular word-craft displayed by this  first-time author. This and the poignant underpinning concerning the twins  more than make up for other deficiencies such as a superficial title, a  cliched ending, and playing up to western fantasies of India! All said,  hearty kudos for this ambitious author and I personally expect more good  stuff from her.
Book 11 is a very will written mystery about a crime ring working out of the Bertram Hotel.  Miss Marple is on holiday at the Bertram Hotel when she over hears conversations that will later help solve a series of robberies. The characters are interesting and well developed. The story line is a tangle of misdirection, twist and turns that leads too dead ends. I would recommend this series too anyone who enjoys a will written mystery. Enjoy reading
This was a really great story, well laid out and perfectly executed....except it had a bit of a subplot about Jack Ryan being set up to look like he was cheating on his wife and the whole tension between Ryan and the National Security Advisor (...).  Had it not been for that, I would have rated this book 5 stars instead of four.  And by the way, the book is WAY so much better than the movie.
I wish the film had been this good. Clancy hasn't written a book this great for a long, long time. I wish he'd study his work here and duplicate it (not literally!) in his next novel, because evidently the money has gotten to his head and he's lost it. He once told a classroom of students at his old high school that his inspiration to write is the car he drives. He's turned into a hack!
Peace has broken out in the Middle East, due in large part to the efforts of Jack Ryan, but not everyone is happy about it.  A small group of Palestinian terrorists have stumbled upon enough plutonium to make a powerful nuclear bomb, and with the right help can threaten the United States.  Also, the President's new Security Advisor hates Jack and does everything she can to get him kicked out.  Her bad advice causes total confusion at the worst possible time. While initially slow moving, the end was very exciting.  What must have seemed far-fetched when the book was written in 1991, no longer seems impossible in the wake of the September 11th terrorist attacks. But overall, I enjoyed the book once it got going.
Overall the book is of superb quality. I purchased this from Amazon.com directly, not through some other seller. The item was indeed new however it was printed upside down and backwards of the front cover. I expected a top quality item from Amazon not a misprint!
This is a very thorough book.  I bought it for my husband, who is using it for a survival club he started.  Contains lots of interesting stuff worth knowing.
It takes a while to get into this book, but when you do its worth it.  Its a real page turner (and there's alot of them), its several stories that all come together to one great ending. The book reflects the constant danger we are in from terrorist attack, in this case the threat of a nuclear detonation in a major city.  Terrorists come up with a plan to start the Third World War and its upto Jack Ryan, CIA, to stop them. What unfolds is a great story that makes you think 'what if'. Having not read a Tom Clancy book before I didn't quite know what to expect.  While reading the book though I found myself amazed at the amount of technical details I had read without even thinking about it.  Am not one who likes to look at the specs of things but I was impressed by the way Clancy included these in the book without it dulling the readers interest, if anything it made the book more interesting.  This guy knows his stuff and when it comes to writing he has his style and it obviously works, many movies have been made from his books and he is still writing after many years. I found some of his newer books to be more difficult to get interested in but when it comes to the Jack Ryan series he has it made. This book was turned into a highly successful film that I am yet to see, but if it is half as entertaining as the book i'll watch it a dozen times. 4 Stars (would have been 5 but as I said, it was a little difficult to get interested in it to begin with).
Tom Clancy made a another great book. The attention to detail and the suspense is second to none. The book makes you feel like the events that are happening in the book are actually happening in real life. Its terrifying to think that we could be swept up so easily in thermo-nuclear war. The book is second to none and is a marvelous masterpiece. Each character is well thought out and the detail about each character is great. I feel like i know each character personally, almost like they are my own neighbors. Clancy out did himself when he wrote this book. He should write a sequal to this novel.
Enjoyed, good twist. Agatha Christie never disappoints.
Agatha Christie was a very good writer and all her stories are well written, but as with most books written in the past it was a little hard to follow in a few places. Remembering the different plot lines of the loosely connected characters and the older names was difficult. Miss Marple  keeps her eyes open and helps the police by giving them information. Still, this is a great old mystery.
A fun read from an author I love.
Christie's stories never age.
Like other reviewers have pointed out, this is a very good, practical survival guide. I purchased this along with two books buy Cody Lundin and all were good. This guide is more of a straight forward reference guide where Lundin's books are a bit more light-hearted and meant to be read from beginning to end. Both methods work and the author puts everything in easy to understand terms and format. You can tell that he knows his stuff and that's comforting to know. The advice is also presented in a to-the-point style that leaves no misunderstandings. This is a very good book for the outdoorsman/camping enthusiast.
This book is an essential. We have visited several jungles and plan to visit more and this book greatly reduces our risks. Even though we pack very light, we both carry a copy.
This book is one of the best books I have read but it is a bit disappointing as the storyline is weak. As the first book of the author it is a very good but as a Booker winner it is below expectations. The authoress's description of rural Kerela is pictoral, a good point of the book. The supporting characters seem to have sad lives and there is no cheer. The 4 central characters have been portrayed in a manner which is very unique. Roy's style is refreshing and there seem to be millions of plots running but this is due to the weak storyline.
Before I read this novel my impression of Tom Clancy had been that he writes Russian related political suspence represented by The Hunt For Red October and Red Storm Rising. But this novel shows that the world still need a Jack Ryan. Actually I would like to hear him say "Mr. President, you are acting irrational". Terrosists who steal nuke from Isreal and detonate at Super Bowl series sounds so real now that bandits that might do the same abound. Situation is close as well. Russians are now allies not enemies. And rising tension in Mid East. It's a bit long and tedious for non-native speakers of English. And as a Japanese who heard about Hiroshima and Nagasaki about 60 years ago, lack of radiation description is a big disappointment. Despite that, the last 200 pages compensate all the frustration. I would like to see again how Jack would deal with another incident of global terrosism.
The focus of this book is about short term survival. It does focus on living off the land, the mental aspects, tools and survival tactics, but mostly in the light of surviving an accident or disaster when help is on the way. Conditioning yourself to live long enough for help to arrive.  It made me realize how bad things would be if help wasn't on the way and how ill prepared we are in the event of massive disaster or something changing the entire planet.  You can't take people used to running water, sanitation, cell phones, the Internet, grocery stores, cars, and whatever else and toss them out there and expect them to live beyond being a scavenger.  It's a good read, but there are updated versions of this book now available.
I purchased the survival guide and I'm pleased with it.  I didn't realize that it was pocket sized, and would have preferred to purchase the handbook first, pocket sized travel edition later.
This book has probably the most information packed into it than any other book I have read.  Unfortunately it only briefly touches on each subject quickly.  Much like an encyclopedia is crammed full of information on just about anything, but doesn't go into any one subject in great detail.  Also there are a couple of things that aren't quite accurate but overall this book is a really amazing field guide on a lot of really amazing skills.  However you want to try out a lot of these techniques before you try to use them in a real survival situation so you can figure out the fine nuances in each technique.
Sum of All Fears is right up there with the other great Clancy books like Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games, and Clear and Present Danger. The book can get buried in details (don't all Clancy books?), but if you can get through the technical nuclear bomb building details, the last 1/4 is as good as it gets.
I read the book the first time when it first came out and spend a lot of sleepless night reading just one more chapter before I went to sleep. I saw the movie and it shares two things with the book, a terrorist bomb and Jack Ryan, and little else. I understand that they had to find someone to play the part and when they got someone younger they rewrote everything. The book is about a terrorist act on US soil, a President who cannot lead, an national security advisor who is totally incompetent and Jack Ryan. Take away Jack Ryan and Tom Clancy was a prophet about 9-11.
Agatha is always a good read.
This book was pretty good. Basically a light mystery.
What should I add? Everything has been said above.
Typical Miss Marple story line, but very delightful, as always.  Miss Marple was less central to the story this time than in others of Ms. Christie's books.
This was classic Agatha Christie.  It was an enjoyable read. There were enough twists in the plot to keep it interesting. Miss Marple is the best.
Excellent survival information.  Perfect for the summer home in the woods or on your next hiking trip...
Tom Clancy works his magic again, as he continues the Jack Ryan series with another block buster of a book. I would have given this book a higher rating, but compared to the genius of some of Mr. Clancy s other books i can not. I highly urge everyone to read this book.
Agatha CHristie is always good .  Bertram' s Hotel.  Different than most of CHristie books I've read.  Very suspenseful ,interesting  and I enjoyed very much
I had read this Agatha Christie mystery long ago.  I was surprised again with the ending.  "CHRISTIE" novels never disappointing.
Expressed in terms of days added to your life-span divided by packing volume, this may be the second most valuable object you can own in an outdoor survival situation. Unless, like Burgess Meredith in that old episode of the Twilight Zone, you can't read small print without your eyeglasses, in which case you will have just succumbed to a new wave of natural selection.
Read Agatha and you always get a terrific novel!  wish there were more writers like her.
I loved this book, it is the first Agatha Christie and Miss Marple that I have read. It reminded me lot of Maeve Binchey's writing and I just adore her books.
yes its tough to get thru some of the smart-alecy set pieces. read it in small doses or you're sure to miss the gems that lie between the words. cant believe its her first work.
Not her usual writing.  But it was interesting.
Not my favorite Miss Marple, but certainly a lot of fun.
a typical miss marple by agatha Christie mystery full of prim and proper old English charm. A good read but not her best
Clancy describes a horrendous terrorist plot, which at the time he wrote it seemed like fantasy. In light of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, it is now a frightening possibility that seems all to probable. This book was ahead of its time, and if you can make it through the 700 pages, it describes a step-by-step process that is believable and suspenseful. I read this book a few years ago, but I don't think I will read it again. Not that it's a bad book, it's just too realistic and scary now.
I cannot fathom how hard it is to take the most important parts out of Tom Clancy's novels and fit them onto CD or tape. In this case, I think they did pretty darn well. David Ogden Stiers performed masterfully while reading this work. His use of accents, and different voice tones to help you follow what characters were speaking was absolutley superb. I am very very happy with the reading. The story was good as well, nuclear terror is nothing to joke with, and Tom Clancy created a plausible senario. I'm reading his books out of order unfortunatley, and I have a little trouble accepting how much grief the USA gets into in all his books, this is unimportant however, Tom Clancy writes great plots, with great characters. Long live Jack Ryan!!
I very much enjoyed "God of Small things".  Having just read "THE Autobiography of Jesus of Nazareth and the Missing Years" (set largely in the same areas), Ms Roy's wonderful book filled in the hearbeat of India for which Patton's book left me yearning.  It was the humanity of Ms. Roy's writing that I found so absorbing.  A worthy winner of the Booker prize.
This very very emotional and introspective novel by Ms. Arundhati Roy is one of the best I have read. This novel may not move you to tears but will haunt you for days. I have woken up a lot of mornings with rahel, eatha and ammu's tears from my eyes.  It makes you wonder about the human mind. The incest of rahel and estha made me think. Really think. Being a "two-egg twin" myself I thought, "Would I have done that ?". My instinct was to say no, but honestly I do not know. May be thats natural given the life of both of them. What they did that night was not physical love but a expression of the longing love. A must read.
An odd tale, but told with a style all it's own. Somewhat reminiscent of Rushdie and with a descriptive power equal to Steinbeck. Definitely not Hollywood film material (I hope they don't attempt it). If this author plans a second book it had better be good or it will be bound to dissapoint.
Hard to keep up with.
A typical Agatha Christy book. The story is full of twists and surprises and although slow the story is very entertaining. She describes the characters and the environment of the hotel very well and although Miss Marple plays a role in the background is in in the middle of the solution of the crime.
Even though I read mysteries almost exclusively; I had never read an Agatha Christie.  I'm not sure why, maybe I was afraid of being disappointed after all the hype.  Well, this was my second Miss Marple mystery and I think I'm hooked.  It is everything I expected an Agatha Christie to be and I now understand why she is the Queen.  It has everything: British manners, quick witted repartee, a meddling detective who knows everything and a pretty good mystery to boot.
Reading Agatha Christie is more about the people and her descriptions of their characters.  This one may seem a little slow but I enjoy the character study.
Not one of Christie's best.  Miss Marple seems to be a background character.  It was good and ended well, but it was a slow story.  Worth reading, but to easy to set down,
It's an Agatha Christie!  I mean, what's not to like?  I enjoyed this sedate story and, most especially, the sweet (but false) Olde Englishness of the hotel itself.
I have read this book before and liked it.  Beatrice
SAS world famous for their skills. Now you can be one of them. All you need to know in a pocket package.
I wanted a manual for an emergency pack, and I got exactly what I was looking for:  A general manual, with broad topic coverage, easy to understand.  Also, the small size is easy to pack.  I've ordered more for all my packs now.
This is a very good book, with an interesting plot and good character developement.  The only thing that kept me from giving it 5 stars is the sheer length of it.  You can read this book till your nose starts to bleed  and only be a quarter of the way through it.  The sequence where he  describes the nuclear detonation is a good example.  By the end of the book  I found myself just skipping page after page of meaningless text to find  out what happens in the end.
Enjoyed this very much.  I thought it started off a little slow but, it moved quite nicely after that. If you are looking for something that isn't to graphic and interesting, this is for you.
the little bit of time each day or so that I get to read I am enjoying this book very much.
I'm glad to purchase this one, lots of good info packed in small size which makes it easy to carry.
This is a GREAT survival book!  I saw this at Barnes & Noble and loved it for the color pictures of plants/roots/flowers/etc. that are edible/poisonous/healing/etc. and for the helpful parts on different climates, conditions, and finding your bearings (directioning ability, not the little metal balls).  I still might get the regular-sized version, but this is TRULY a (cargo) pocket-sized book.  The print isn't too small at all.  The pictures still show fine and helpful details.  DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY ON SOME OTHER BLACK AND WHITE, CHEAP PAPER BOOK!  GET THIS ONE!!!
I got tired of the nuclear physics details, but that was about all that was tiring about the end of the DDCI's career. Once again, Mr. Clancy has written a book that creates that willing suspension of disbelief that is so  critical to enjoying a novel.  Thank you Mr. Clancy, and I hope that Jack  Ryan enjoys his retirement. It is well deserved.
Clancy has hit it off again! With an incredible story line, the are things that has this book bounding! Unfortunately, Clancy hit it a little too hard with all the things about putting together an atomic bomb, and the  intricate details on how it works, but when the stuff hit the fan, the  story took off! It became impossible for me to put down! A definite read!
Entertaining read! Old fashioned hotel life! Tea!  Interesting characters! Miss Marple!
Typical Agatha Christie. Pretty good story, although the ending was abrupt and unsatisfying.
I would like a mystery to have all the clues presented to the reader somewhere in the novel.  I don't like for facts to show up on the last page.
This was a fairly fast read and just never guessed the ending. Definitely a good puzzle to figure out, but I never did.
I usually give all Agatha Christie's books five stars, but I tired of this book before I got to the end. I did enjoy it, and I'm glad I read it. But I rather wish it hadn't been quite as long as it is. Still, it's a good addition to anyone's library.
Not one of Agatha's best but enjoyable.
A great summer time read. The details and nostalgia made me want to go to Bertram's Hotel. I could picture the visitors and nearly taste the tea and muffins. It was fun to think of myself as Miss Marple, putting the pieces of the puzzle together to solve the mystery.
Fun read.
Characteristic Aggie---  Love to have these available for emergency reading.
Another good mystery to kick back and enjoy.
I like this book because it is a "one stop" reference book.  For an overall outlook, the Tom Brown series is stronger.  However, this one book should reside in your automobile and keep another copy handy for review.  Very concise and easy to understand.
Always has a twist, I enjoy her characters, not just pretty people.  Never disappoints.  Quick and easy read great for summer vacation.
almost a five star
All Agatha Christie books are good. You are in suspense until the end.
One of Agatha's best. Read it many years ago and enjoyed it even more the second time.
This is a nice enjoyable read that doesn't tax you too much, but has a satisfying plot and interesting characters.
John "Lofty" Wiseman,  Ex SAS, if you ever wanted someone who knew what he was talking about, this is the man. The book is full of info for literally every point and circumbstance on the planet. It is a book that you will use, demolish while using it and you will buy another copy because you used this one too much. The only regret I have of this book (and why I give it 4 stars) is not the content but the book itself. It is not sturdy enough. The content itself is a mini library to survival around the globe. You're a serious survivalist or camper? This book should be yours.
This book is a great start to learning survival skills.  However, other books will be needed in conjunction if you are not a plant and tree expert.  I do highly recommend the book for anyone looking to learn to live off the land. It has great tips for survival kits and things you might not ever think of.  The author has obviously honed his skills over many years, and has the authority to give this advice.
As with all of Agatha Christie's novels, there is plenty of complexity, subterfuge, obfuscation, and challenge.  Miss Marple, in her old age, does a creditable job of teaching the younger inspectors how to properly investigate murder. The characters are developed thoroughly and cleverly. This book is another great read!
Classic , easy read, entertaining
A very different book.  A mystery but fun to read with a clever ending.
Not as good as other Miss Marples
Lots of good information in a very compact package. This book fits easily into a backpack or ATV trunk
Agatha Christie surprises once again as she pens an interesting mystery story of international intrigue involving complex family relationships, mistaken identities, and a missing clergyman. The murder, when it finally occurs, signals the beginning of the end of the case with all ends neatly tied off. The charming Miss Marple once again uses her unique skills of observation, life lessons, and common sense to assist Scotland Yard in solving a puzzling series of crimes. Any fan of Agatha Christie's will enjoy this book.
I am a big fan of Agatha Christie.  I also like the movies based on her books.  This book left me wondering what was going on and I was surprised at the ending. I do however prefer Poirot still.
A good Agatha Christie.  Lots of interesting characters who keep you guessing almost to the end.
This book actually has very good techniques and survival tips. It covers all details of what to do (and what not to do). The only area this book could be better in is descriptions of plants/animals. Wherever it was necessary to describe many plants, for example poisonous plants, the description were very brief and the "pictures" (really drawings) were quite bad. The same applies to animals. That is why I only gave 4 stars. Other than that, this book is really a great resource.
The Collins Gem edition of this survival manual is a perfect size for packing along.  Kids also gravitate to it for the same reason - it is really, really cute.  It is also available in a standard book-sized edition, which is easier to read and study at your leisure, but not nearly as nice to pack.  The small print may prove difficult to read in low light situations, but of course, after you've boned up on your survival skills, you'll be prepared to light a fire for warmth and light to read by.
Fast read
Really like Agatha Christie books. They keep me interested throughout.
I purchased this book based on the reviews and have not been disappointed! The book has 572 pages of useful information. It covers a wide breadth of topics as well! After witnessing the aftermath or hurricane Rita in Houston on the unprepared, I have found this book to be a great resource for getting prepared and having the proper mindset. Don't just read it. Pack it in your survival kit if possible![edit 8-28-06] Ok, now I've been through hurricane Katrina and now Ernesto is threatening Fla. or the Gulf region. Everytime I open the book, there is something new that I discover in there!
enjoyed this Miss Marple tale immensely
What can you say. It is vintage Christie!
This book was the first survival book that I got.  It didn't leave my side for weeks, until I had read it cover to cover.  Now that I'm a little older, wiser, and more critical, I have noticed some faults.  There are millions of feral cats in australia, there are about half a dozen different types of deer in australia and a tiger snake doesn't look like the illustration provided.  That makes me wonder what else isn't correct, but I still think that its a great book though.  Packed full of useful information, and fairly detailed instruction for a lot of things you can do in your own shed or varandah.  It'll keep you entertained for ages.
This book is one of four indispensable basic, general texts on the subject of survival that anyone interested in the subject should have for reference.  The others are Janowsky and Janowsky, the US Army FM 21-76, US Air Force Reg 64-4. My version is the 1986 Survive Safely Anywhere: The SAS Survival Manual.  The most important characteristic of a really useful book on this subject is not just the kind and quantity of information available, but the real usefulness and authenticity of the information.  Wiseman's book has that, and it's greatest asset beyond that sine qua non is the generally excellent quality of illustration.  It covers much of the same ground as other texts, expands nicely on some areas, and has some discussion that is generally not discussed in other books.  It has quite a bit in the areas of camp craft/improvised equipment, plants, first aid,  and natural disasters.  The bit on vehicle operation is not the same old information, and benefits from military experience such as that of SAS Mobility Troop. This book, with the other three, is a superb general reference and a starting point for further investigations for those interested in the subject.
Pretty fair, illustrations good, maybe a little more expansive on first aid, snares and improvised equipment than FM 21-76, some stuff on vehicle operation that is sketchy but useful and often not in these books, I would put Wiseman on a par with FM 21-76 (Army) overall, though I almost agree with the reviewer that found 21-76 better; I also would add that AFR 64-4 (Air Force)is great as well, though not very portable.  Scanning the books on my shelves, I see these three are falling apart while the others of this sort look hardly used.
Another great Agatha Christie
Interesting in this book Christie allows the police character to be the "smart" one and the beloved title character to be little more than stage-dressing.
Great read, quick and a little predictable but fun to read. I do adore Miss Marple! Lovely description of the hotel.
Attention Philip K. Dick fans: Perhaps you never read Agatha Christie mysteries. But I consider At Bertram's Hotel to be her PKDickish novel. Read Dick's Time Out of Joint; then read At Bertram's Hotel. You'll see the connection. Looking at the writings of the two novelists more broadly, each was concerned with inversions of reality; things are never what they seem. The only difference is that Christie writes to restore the proper order of things, while Dick says there is no proper order. But, oh, would I love to be a guest in Bertram's Hotel, if only to drink the tea and eat those muffins that drip butter down one's shirt. Next to Nemesis, At Bertram's Hotel is my favorite Miss Marple novel, and that is saying a lot.
Not one of her best but nonetheless a good read
Hard to go wrong with with a miss marple story. Fast, engaging and smart. I only wish we saw more of miss marple in this one! I was kept guessing until the end--per usual!
But not quite the thing. Some loose strings, Miss Marple not quite in her best shape. Lovely atmosphere, though. Worth reading.
I enjoyed reading this book, it was entertaining and a quick read.  Would recommend this to all the mystery lovers out there.
The story has interesting characters.  There are "bad guys" and "good guys" but which are which? There is a surprise ending along with the realization that we really can't revisit the past.
I generally prefer Poirot but this Miss Marple hit the mark for me.  I loved the atmosphere, the bizarre details and extravagant characters.  A pleasure to read.
Not the center of attention, Miss Marple is nevertheless at the center of the action. Can a hotel be a protagonist in a mystery novel? Chatham Christie says "yes"!
It is different from Christies normal type. Miss Marple had a small but pivotal role. Well thought out plot. I would tell a friend to read it.
But it's still a good Agatha Christie mystery!  If you love Miss Marple, you can't help but appreciate that Agatha Christie allowed Miss Marple to age with time to the point where she didn't get around as much but her mind was still as sharp as ever. Very enjoyable read!
Another of Agatha Christie's ingenious plots. Well written as usual and gives a good picture of the life of certain classes.
This is a fast moving mystery where murder takes second place to a whole series of robberies.  An intriguing story, though I was disappointed that I had to delve through 80% of the book before any murder took place.  Miss Marple herself also plays second fiddle to some Scotland Yard detective.  She renders help, but it is not clear that the cops couldn't solve it without her.
small in size, extremely easy instructions. well put recipes. hope the next edition has more color pictures.
this is a great book really informative nice pages and great recipes the price was very good and it had a great selection of recipes in a wide range of food choices az
Are using it quite often used it tonight for supper love the book awesom waffle reciepies would buy from again
lhad a pancake breakfast for guest who commented about the pancakes.be sure to add ginger ale to mis for added texture
Really coffee table quality with beautiful pictures.  Only drawback is that it is very large and would be awkward on my kitchen counter as I have a really small kitchen if I wanted to have it open to cook a recipe.  It is a cross between the Tess Mallos Middle Eastern cook book and the old Time-Life series.  Lots of narrative of local customs along with lovely photographs. A really nice addition to my cook books.
This is another great "read along" companion for the Sharpe novels. One drawback however is that it was published in 1998 so all the books written after that date are not included. One other slight problem is that if you read it along with the novel it will likely tell you about events before they unfold in the story. The maps, the history of the campaigns and all the tid-bits of information make this truely a super "companion" book.
After reading the whole series of Sharpe books I felt left wanting to learn more about the wars in which the books talk about.  This book explains each book in detail.  Ranging from the equipment the troops used to the tactics under which they fought. Alot of research went into this book and it's highly informative.  It takes the book past Sharpe to the actual event's he was written into.  The British success in defeating Napoleon in the pennisular wars was a major turning point in world history, this book helps us better understand the struggle it was to defeat Napoleon. Cornwell does a wonderful job at describing the events that took place to each relevant Sharpe book but this book takes it one step further. It's a truly educating book, a must for anyone wanting to take their interest in history a step further then the Sharpe series. 4 Stars.
Despite having, IMO, the best swing in golf today, Ernie is not the best of golf writers. He repeats himself a lot through the book, wich makes it a bit boring. However, at the end of the book you will have a surprise - having gone through all the basics over and over again, you really assimilate some good swing thoughts that will improve your swing. Great fotos; all in all a usefull book.
It's often said that the tempo of your swing should reflect your personality.  If you are a "hurry up" kind of person, find a golf manual by Nick Price.  Nothing wrong with Nick's swing at all, mind you, just a little fast.  On the other hand, if you like to take your time about things, you couldn't do better than using Ernie as your model.  I've always admired Ernie Els, but I have to confess that I bought this book on a whim.  But I have absolutely no regrets.  It's well-written (although it could have used a wee more editing) and made me believe that Ernie actually wrote it, since it "sounds" like Ernie.  It is good, sound golf advice, easy to follow, not too long, and well-organized.  The photos are exceptional -- best pictures I've ever seen in a golf book.  My one caveat concerns Ernie's recommendation about grip.  He recommends a neutral grip, and who am I to argue with Ernie Els about golf?  Neutral grips work for a lot of golfers, but there are many, many golf instructors who recommend a strong grip.  Use this or any other book as a supplement to instruction by a PGA professional.  But do buy the book.
Ernie Els has a easy golf swing. I am always amazed when I see how smooth it is and how far that ball flys afterward.  He breaks down the components of the swing with plenty of photos.  The only thing better would have been a DVD included with lessons.
Lessing brings to us her excruciating humanity. The writing sears us with its truth. Her gentle eyes, whether on her protagonist, or on other suffering creatures, is a revelatory, and it is something that we, as thinking, caring, beings, might do well to consider when we look at the world.
I love Lessing's departure into science fiction.  We know tha themes combine iand express randomly through the generations.  I was reminded of the book with the recent discoveries of Neanderthal genes still extant in the world.  Perhaps we need to watch more closely for the divergent self as it emerges in the world.  We do not know what needs the world has called forth?
A continuation of The Fifth Child finds Ben on his own.  His differences make him stand out.  His struggles to succeed makes for an interesting story.  Easy to read.
Wanted to reread this wonderful book before the movie comes out. Easy read and still a good mystery.
Takes nearly half the book to get to the actual crime and it was a nice build up but the second half definitely lagged a bit. The ending saved the book though and made it well worth the read.
I have been reading a few Agatha Christie books these days and in some ways, I'm sad that I didn't seek them out earlier. "Death on the Nile" is her 17th foray into the M. Poirot series and by now, she's an old pro at setting the scene, establishing the characters, and providing a good mystery.  Well-renowned detective M. Poirot has been looking forward to a trip on the Nile River for quite some time but trouble seems to follow him wherever he goes, even if it's on vacation. What was supposed to be a leisurely trip ends up becoming another murder mystery for him to solve.  The voyage features an ensemble of main and supporting characters, from Linnet Ridgeway, the rich heiress who ultimately gets shot in the head to Simon Doyle, the fianc she stole from her best friend, Jacqueline de Belleforte. Linnet's murder acts as the main mystery for M. Poirot but there are a number of subplots that need to be tidied up as well.  I enjoyed the mystery, and I felt that Christie's books are often a good length. You never feel like things are dragged on for the sake of things, and every character that appears is supposed to be there.
A fun read as I am an asthma Christie fan.
My granddaughter really liked it.
Its a slow story but at the same time, it keeps your interest.  All of Agatha Christie's books are like that.  Maybe that is why I enjoy them so much.  I will continue to read them.
Catherine Aird's first book, from 1966, is a good, sold cosy.  Up until the 1990s, when her narratives became meandering and precious, Aird figured as one of the best post-WW2 English cosy writers.
There are a multitude of suspects and a complex investigation of all the possibilities, which keeps you engaged in guessing who the murderer could be.
Gift
Loved it. No wonder Agatha Christie is so popular. This took quite a bit of work to plot out, and it's brilliantly done. Something that's often left me hanging in AC novels is that they're so plot driven (I think mystery novels have to be). I often miss getting to know the characters. In the Hercule Poirot mysteries there's a familiar character to get comfortable with. This is a large cast as always, but AC did a nice job introducing everyone so we could know them, and hope that our favorites weren't the ones in trouble. Excellent wrap up to a satisfying ending.
Nicely balanced very interesting read
This book is a very good guide. The thing I like most about it is its size. It is actaully smaller than "Birds of North America". It is a field guide not a desk reference like Howell and Webb "Birds of Mexico", that is about 3x larger or Hilty "Birds of Venezuela" 4x larger. These two books are actually too large to use as field guides. Many rip out the illustrations and bind them separately, because the books are too big to lug around. The only reason it did not receive 5 stars is because the range maps are in the back of the book.  But "Birds of Costa Rica" does not even have range maps and it is considered excellent by many.
The book gets 4 stars only because the distribution of the birds are bunched up in the back  Good illustrations  and text.  Highly recommend it to anyone planning to bird in  S. America
This guide is good; probably the best available for the region. The birders I ran into (even a park ranger) had this guide. It is a convenient size, fitting easily in my cargo-shorts pockets while both hands held my binoculars.  It describes most of species (I found a few exceptions, eg. Gray Gull, but it is fairly complete).  I did find that some of the illustrations were somewhat simplistic.  More detailed descriptions would be useful, but could also negatively affect the weight of the book.  I used it in Parque Nacional Iguazu and los Esteros del Ibera, and it served its purpose well.
It was the first time for me in South America, so I didn't know nothing about the birds there. I had the chance to find this guide, which helped me very much, thanks to the good figures. The text is a little bit poor, but for a beginner it's enough. For some families like the Furnariids and the Tyrannids the figures weren't always good for recognising the species in the field. But, in general, I found this guide very useful and the best between all other guides of the region which I saw.
The story is classic Poirot and the plot intriguing. Although I don't envy the reader, several of his voices were very nasal and hard to listen to. He also tends to taper off into softer speech from time to time. Since I listen in order to ease sleep, it's annoying to have to raise the volume or repeat a passage I couldn't hear.
Interesting plot.
Loved it!
Bailey performs the Aird book with style although, with some hearing impairment, I had some difficulty with the rather deep pitch of the wry voice he creates for the hero, Inspector Sloan. Even with this problem the performance came across as a good one making for quite an enjoyable experience. I like Aird's books and this was no exception. She does well the life of a Convent and that of the neighboring boys agricultural school. The interaction of both produces the murder which Sloan is assigned to solve. There is some decent mystification but, as is her wont, it is the characters and the setting which invests the book with most of its interest. While not the best of Aird's work, to my mind, I should think most people will find entertainment in this one as performed by Bailey.
This novel introduced Detective Inspector Sloan.  Really excellently plotted with a clever denouement, all the characters have depth and quirkiness (with the possible exception of the denizens of the boys' school next door, who seem rather stereotypical).  The interaction of cloistered nuns and flat-foot coppers makes for a nice stirry-pot of entertainment.  Since they are dealing with a religious community, which probably move more slowly than the rest of the world, none of the references seem dated.  It's just good old-fashioned human tragedy, served up cozy and warm.
Robin Bailey is laconic. I generally prefer quicker--or perhaps I should say, lighter--readers (Ian Carmichael, Rosemary Leach) but there is something hypnotically pleasant about listening to Robin Bailey's deep voice. You can picture him raising his eyebrows over some of Sloan's dialog. In typical Aird fashion, the dialog is often quite cryptic and the mystery is somewhat thin. If you like mysteries for the clues, the red herrings, the complex puzzle building, Aird is not for you. If, however, you enjoy irony and the fine sketches of various personalities (in the context, of course, of a murder), Aird is a good choice. Recommendation: I'm a firm believer that readers make all the difference in the enjoyment of an audiotape. If you've never heard Robin Bailey before, check one of his audios out of the library first.
1998 so needs some updating. Comprehensive for the area. Images are good. Limited views per species. Likely still one of the best portable, toss in the suitcase guides for Argentina. If Chile is the destination, I would get the specific Chilean guide.
I took an extended trip (2 months) through Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay. This book was adequate and quite useful. I wish the range maps weren't in the back of the book, it slows you down a bit. However, from what I have seen, this is probably the best book to carry if you will be traveling over a large part of the region. The pictures are pretty good, but not great. The descriptions are also pretty good, but not great. I understand some concessions had to be made in order to make it a compact field guide. Overall I think a good job was done of balancing information/size of the book. If you can get by without regional range maps then "Birds of Chile" might be the way for you to go. It is a slightly better quality guide. If you want the range maps for the entirety of South America, and you need a compact, "backpacker friendly" guide, then don't hesitate to purchase this one.
It's a good nice book, the size is small, so good to carry and also good for backpackers. Only difficulty is that the spreadingmaps are in the back, that's not very convenient. The plates are nice.  I'll see how many birds I can find down there
It has high quality images of birds. It only have family classification, for biolohist it could have the order classification. It is a small book which is good to carry.
I took this book and also Birds of Chile by Alvaro Jaramillo with me to Chilean Patagonia.  I found the Jaramillo book better.  The bird names are on the plates by the illustration whereas in Birds of Southern South America many more species needed to be illustrated so they are numbered on the plates.  Also, Birds of Chile puts the range maps opposite the plates, and in full color.  Birds of Southern South America puts the colorless maps at the back of the book.  Still, it's a good field guide, but covers a broader area than I needed for Chilean Patagonia and its deficiencies are traceable to the need to include more species.
I am going birding in Bolivia -- which does not yet have it's own field guide -- later this year. So instead of carrying one guide I need to figure out which combination of books will strike a balance between usefulness and space/weight. I have a feeling this is going to be one of my main resources. It is very portable and so far about 85 percent of the birds I may potentially see are in here. In no way is this book intended to replace a full scale field guide such as "Birds of Columbia" by Hilty or "Birds of the High Andes" but then again it is less than one quarter the size and weight. Also, FYI -- it is quite a bit more than merely an illustrated checklist: you do get a small one paragraph description for each bird, a range map at the back which is a little inconvenient but many full size guides use this format also.  The book is probably a little out of date as far as some of the finer points of  taxonomy -- but many of the recent arguments are at least explained. All in all -- I feel this will be a very useful book to have along, though it will definitely not be the only book I'll have along.
I'm a huge Christie fan, and this story doesn't disappoint. The first time I read it was 20+ years ago and hadn't remembered the ending, so it was fun to read it again. And for those of you that have never read it but have seen the movie, the plot is very different from what you saw on the screen!
This was my first Agatha Christie novel which I was able to read 10 years ago. I guess there's something about Agatha Christie that compelled me to read her mysteries over and over again. This one happened to be one of my favorites, aside from Murder in the Orient Express.  While on board a cruise ship for a vacation/honeymoon in Egypt, dashingly beautiful and wealthy woman, Linnet Doyle was found dead in her cabin, and Hercule Poirot tried his best to discover the murderer. In a distinctive Poirot fashion, he was able to find clues among the personal things inside the ship, like a velvet stole (long shawl) and a bottle of red ink, plus a string of faux pearls. To tell you frankly, my first guess suspect had been the jealous ex-lover of Linnet's husband Simon.. But as I perused the whole book, my guesses kept on changing. Until I finally reached the end.  Wow, it was mind blowing! I loved that it kept me at the edge of my seat, that it was quick paced and very much intriguing, even if the book's timeline was too many decades ago. Agatha Christie may have been in cahoots with Sherlock Holmes when she wrote this book. If you are a lover of mysteries and thrillers, then this book is for you!
Good read but the plot is not that complex.
Have watched the movie several times; it is a favorite.  Book is good, although there are a lot of characters to keep track of - more than in the movie.  This is one of the rare times when I liked the movie better than the book, but Agatha Christie will always be a favorite author of mine.
Good read. Amazing ending.
Another solid Poirot entry from Ag. Not the best but a solid entry nonetheless. My favorite still is Orient Express followed by Roger Ackroyd. I'm trying to find one that tops those, but have been unsuccessful.
Agatha Christie is always good.
Started off a little slow, but halfway through I couldn't put it down.
Another winner from Mrs. Christie. I had a little trouble keeping up with the characters. I kept getting them confused with one another. But that may have been because I was busy and had to keep taking breaks from reading for days at a time. I love Poirot and can't wait to read more from the Poirot series.
Many of Christie's mysteries have a small set of people isolated together (a moving train in the Orient Express) with one or more murders among that set and a murderer (or murderers) who must be also among the set. She does variations of this plot with the Orient Express mystery being the most memorable.  I have read this before but it is not as memorable as the Orient Express so I got to solve it along with Poirot. It is very good but not the masterpiece that the Orient Express book is. Her mysteries are so satisfying even when they are as solvable (in some but not all aspects) as this one is. Not one of my favorites but good.
The story of this "modern Crusoe" is nice, and will keep you interested in the story and how they solve the problems with their bare hands in a lost island, in this book you will find two or three things that are really interesting and you will learn how the people change when they are in danger or they have to do something that they don't want, is not a thriller, but is a good reading.
Morris West is one of my all-time favorite authors, and here he stretches himself outside of the Catholic framework in which he proved himself a master. "The Navigator" follows Gunnar Thorkild, a scholar not yet appreciated, an adventurer not yet tested.  He gets his chance to prove himself, and to travel in his ancestors' footsteps, when he rounds up a ragtag team to accompany him on a search for a lost island.  When the team become castaways, they are forced to deal with moral and societal laws.  They face danger, fear, love, and hate.  On an adult scale, they deal with the issues of "Lord of the Flies."  And Thorkild is Robinson Crusoe, struggling with his own soul amidst it all. Morris West is a virtuouso of words.  Here, he shows all his strengths and weaknesses.  He reveals moral dilemmas and well-drawn characters, then occasionally burdens them with maudlin soap-opera type scenes.  His dialogue is dead-on most of the time, then turns melodramatic and Wagnerian. I still love it.  West may reflect old-school sentiments, but he does so with zest. I will dearly miss the man--the writer, the moralist, the entertainer.
The exotic location adds a vivid and rich background to the whole story.  It is a major departure from the usual sitting rooms, dining rooms and other richly furnished places in a grand English manor house; which are the stock-in-trade of many of the Poirot series.  The story is strong and intricate ... the characters are painted with bold strokes; they are memorable and fit the plot perfectly.  When I read it I see the Acorn / Public TV series in my mind. Not the shallow movie with Peter Ustinov, Mia Farrow and Simon MacCorkindale. The Acorn / Public TV obviously has the benefit of the totally "real" Hercule Poirot ... the incredible David Suchet.  One of the best books in a wonderfully rich and powerful series ... and that is well deserved high praise!
fast moving, like
Death on the Nile is a short story featuring Parker Pyne. Parker is on holidays and even though his holiday has been previously interrupted by clients, he's hoping that it won't be interrupted even further. However the other occupants on his cruise have other ideas. One Lady Grayle asks him to find out if she is being slowly poisoned by her husband. He sets out to investigate but before he can uncover the truth Lady Grayle ends up dead.  I find the title of this short story amusing because Agatha Christie has a full length novel under the same title. The full-length Death on the Nile is of course widely popular, having been made into several movies, featuring Hercule Poirot. This short story was unknown to me until I picked it up. The short story was published three years before the novel. I do wonder if perhaps the short story was inspiration for the novel.  In any case it was a good, little story. Parker Pyne doesn't usually solve murders, so it was interesting watching him try his hand at this one. With limited suspects and evidence aplenty, Parker managed to solve it in time.  Another good Parker Pyne mystery.
Death on the Nile is everything you expect from an Agatha Christie book.  It has lots of twists and turns, but in the end all of the loose ends come together to solve the mystery.
The build up to the first murder takes a while as each character is very thoroughly introduced. This makes for a challenging puzzle to say the least. Another terrific Agatha Christie!
This was my first Agatha; I've missed a lot, haven't I!  It's such a pleasure to read a *real* writer.  You start out at a leisurely pace (though you feel something's not quite right).  Then all the characters come together, and the pace picks up -- slowly at first, then faster and faster.  Three-fourths of the way through you know just who did it -- what could they possibly write in all those pages remaining?  Then, no!  Not him, her.  No, that guy for sure.  No,...  I give up!  Everybody could've done, and nobody could've done it.  Finally, Agatha (and Hercule) know best.  Excuse me -- I've got to board the Orient Express now...  (Read it on the Kindle.)
I liked this book but Hercule kind of goes on and on when he should just solve the crime.  It was a sad ending for all parties involved.
Hercule Poirot is a dapper little twit with a mind like a steel trap! I've enjoyed these Christie mysteries for longer than I like to say. And I always had to wait until Mom had finished the book before I'd get a turn with it. And Happy Mother's Day to all you Moms out there!
The mystery kept me guessing, and the conclusion was surprising but made sense. My one complaint was that there were a lot of characters, and most of them were not particularly well developed, so it was a bit difficult to keep track of who was who at times.
This book is a classic whodunit mystery, starring Hercule Poirot. You just have to love this Frenchman as he sorts through the suspects until he announces the name of the murderer and the motive. Test your sleuthing skills as you read this, but don't turn to the back of the book first, or you'll miss the action,
This is a classic mystery novel for all ages.  I read it as a young teen and just read it again.  It was so fun and engaging.  Not too complicated, though.
Can't believe I waited til this age in my life - 50+ - to read this classic.  Kept me interested with its twists and turns.  Nice, easy read when you want to read just for fun.
The backdrop to this instalment of Sharpes adventures, concerns a little known incident in 1807. The British sent its navy and troops to Copenhagen in order to persuade the Danes to surrender their fleet (which was based there) because they were concerned it would fall into French hands. If that were to happen, they could replace the ships they lost at the battle of Trafalgar, and it would then be possible to invade Britain. Lieutenant Sharpe is treated as an outcast in his new regiment and is assigned to the quartermasters stores. When he is asked to go to Copenhagen, to help deliver a bribe to the Crown Prince he jumps at the chance. As with the previous books in this series, it is fast paced, full of villains and heroes plus great battle scenes. I have read one or two reviews of this book where it was felt Sharpes Prey was not as good a quality as his previous books in the series. I have to disagree, as I found the book highly entertaining and Im sure it won't be long before I move on to the next book in the series.
Another good book that described a part of history I was completely unaware of. Very interesting story. Someday, Sharpe is going to find him a lady he can stay with.
Good but lacked the pace of some books in the series. Having said that I love them all.
Plan to go through them all, as I have listened to the Aubrey series many times over.  Glad to have somewhere to go. I enjoy seeing characters developed over many books and periods of their life and career.
Good read
For my first Agatha Christie novel,  I enjoyed the read.  I had been looking for a traditional murder mystery and this did the trick well.
Well-plotted and tightly written, but don't expect to be able to guess who did it. Many of the clues are hidden from the reader and Poirot tells them later in the story.
Certainly a classic, but with so many characters and so many plot twists, at times it is very easy to get confused with who is who and what their part is in the story. It's like the authoress pulled out all the stops in this one, mixing in as many characters and as many diversions, to try and be the end-all and be-all of detective stories!  But still, as I said, entertaining!
This was my first experience with Agatha Christie and I must say that I am pleased.  It turns out that right now, I am in the middle of this huge mystery/suspense novel reading phase in life.  It is quite fun.  This story was good.  So many times I had made up my mind as to who would die and who was responsible, and every time, Christie sent me down another path of possibilities.  A good mystery indeed, good thing Hecule Poirot was around to solve it!
Haven't finished reading it.  So far very interesting.  The beginning touches on Richard Sharpe's past and bridges some developments from the previous book.  I'm trying to determine how formulaic this series is.
Good book, great series.
This novel is set in 1807, mainly in and around Copenhagen in Denmark. The Danish navy is penned up in the harbour of Denmarks capital. The French, who had lost most of their navy at the Battle of Trafalgar, are itching to get their hands on Denmarks dormant fleet. The British want to avoid this at all costs. Lavisser is sent by the British to Copenhagen in order to try to bribe the Danish not to let the French get his navy. Lavisser does not travel alone. He is carrying a huge amount of gold and is accompanied by two Brits: one is his personal bodyguard/thug and the other is Richard Sharpe, recently returned from military exploits in India. Once in Denmark, Sharpe discovers that Lavissers allegiances are not as he and his British commander had originally believed. Meanwhile, the British armies arrive in Denmark and lay siege to Copenhagen. Sharpe meets a British agent, a Dane, in Copenhagen, and falls for this mans attractive daughter. Meanwhile the vicious Lavisser is causing mayhem that might lead to a French invasion of Denmark. Will Sharpe be able to thwart Lavisser and his accomplices? Will the Danish navy reach the hands of the French? What will become of Sharpes new Danish friend? These and many other intriguing questions are answered in Bernard Cornwells page-turner, which is beautifully written, filled with credible historical detail, and nail-bitingly exciting.  Review by author of "ROGUE OF ROUXVILLE"
Cornwell s alwaysinteresting
I enjoy the Cornwell books, but I specifically like the Sharpe series.  I will eventually read them all, but in the Sharpe period chronological order.  This book is different from the first few in that the action just doesn't measure up to the expectation of a  Cornwell book.  I did enjoy it an emerging historical facts with fictional actions does make the book interesting as Sharpe and his new Rifleman BN fight to capture the Danish Navy..
Entertaining
Mystery genre:  I found it a very interesting and enjoyable short story.  It was typical of  the Agatha Christie genre.
Although this book is a little slow to start (like most Agatha Christie novels), it proves to be an excellent book with a most amazing twist. The thing I love about this book and book from this author is that they can be read my anyone who doesn't mind a little bit of old-fashioned language. It is a must-read by all those enthralled by murder mysteries and I am not going to be digitally shelving this one for a long time!
My first experience with Agatha Christie and her novels, was through the book And Then There Were None. But then I found Death on the Nile and I instantly loved this book. It's true that Hercule Poirot does a generous amount of chair-sleuthing, but that's what we like about his character. He pompous, always right and has impeccable mustachios. I also was intrigued to read a book about a cast of people floating down the Nile, when there is a murder on board. Now it's up to Hercule to find out what happened.  I have to say I was surprised by the identity of the murderer and why they did it.  A thrilling read!
I enjoy this high action hero series.  It's fun and a good history lesson at the same time
Somewhat of a formula book for Cornwell, but they play so well.
Great book, it's an easy read.  It's always a joy to see what kind of trouble Richard Sharpe finds shimself in.  I wish the book covered some more time between Sharpe's Trafalgar and this title.  I wanted to know more about his marriage and his acceptance into the Rifles.
Typical Sharp story. Same formula but exciting and educational.
Despite seeing the movie over 30 years ago and knowing "who done it", the main plot was intricate and would keep the reader guessing.  A character  (Colonel Race) from a previous novel was present working another plot involving a foreign spy.
At first blush every Sharpe adventure begins with an impossible premise from a historical perspective which, within 20minutes has you arguing for the plausibility and real possibility of the tale. After the 20 minutes you are sucked in and once again are in Sharpe's world where it all makes perfect sense.......and you can't wait to move onto Richard's next improbable escapade.
My husband enjoyed this book  I liked it
good book with less action than the other Sharpe books I've read.
I am a great Bernard Cornwall fan I have read most of his books so my review might be biased. Sharpe's Prey takes him out of main stream British Army as he goes on special assignment (under cover as it were) for the Foreign Office. The historical facts surrounding the siege of Copenhagen in Denmark are basically correct and covers one of the two times Britain invaded Denmark. There is Sharpe in the thick of things, a girl interest which thankfully doesn't go to far. - After Sharpe's Trafalgar we don't want Sharpe getting to involved romantically again. The women interests in the books tend to distract from the main story. Sharpe is sent to hunt down a British traitor who has British information that the French army under Napoleon want. There is the usual war and mayhem that seems to follow Sharpe. The descriptions of Copenhagen and the Denmark of the time are excellent along with the descriptions of the "modern warfare" that is waged in the day  If you like Richard Sharpe books you will enjoy this novel.
I really enjoyed this book, even though I have only ever read Murder on the Orient Express and so am not a Agatha Christie fundi. We went for a holiday in Luxor, Egypt, and heard a lot about the film while we were there and so I ordered it on my kindle. I really enjoyed it, and kept thinking there would be an obvious, or else irritating ending, but I was completely surprised and amazed! Excellent plot! The only thing I should have done was keep a note of who all the characters were, because at the beginning it was really confusing who they all were and where they all fitted in. But all in all, I was impressed and happy that I ordered it. Am keen to see the movie now.
Agatha Christie is possibly a frustrated romance writer, certainly Death on the Nile contains 3 or 4 love stories and it is these love stories that drive the action and make the book worth reading. I also like Agatha Christies characters I think she writes on the edge of almost comic fiction and that makes her murder mysteries a lot of fun. I read another whodunit writer Thorogood's Bigfoot Littlefoot and West and the comedy was a great softener,lets face it murder mystery is a brutal genre. Better than the movie, a good read.
Some say this is Christie's other great work -- probably because of the movie. This is a very good Poirot novel. However, it fails to come close to "Murder on the Orient Express" or "And Then There Were None."
I recieved this book less than a week after I order it and it was in excellent condition
I read AC's as a teenager 30 years ago. I revisited this one because we finally made it to Egypt. Always a good read with period English dialogue and lots of suspects to keep you guessing although I remembered the solution.  Makes me want to find excuses to sit and read during the day instead of waiting till bedtime.  Some may find it a little politically incorrect for our time.
You know the great thing about Corwells work? You feel like you were really there. Although most of the characters are fictional, he always takes pains to get the history right. That, even more than his excellent writing and story telling ability is what makes his books so enjoyable.
Interesting book.  I had seen the movie and tried to tie up the characters in the book with the faces in the movie. Could not remember the outcome of the movie so the book held my interest until the finish.
Agatha Christie has not disappointed me and this is another masterpiece of hers. As an avid reader of Christie's, I have to admit that this was thus far the only story in which I correctly guessed the perpetrator of the crime. Nevertheless, Agatha Christie's writing style is inviting, gripping and will hold you rapt in the story. I literally couldn't stop reading this book and finished it in one day! As usual, Christie introduces us to so many characters (and potential suspects) in the book, which could get quite confusing, so I suggest you make a list of the characters to fully follow the story. I would unequivocally recommend this to anyone who likes or just feels like reading a good sleuth mystery.
Probably not fun for people who don't love history, but I really love it. My only gripe is that one of the pages is falling out.
This is an excellent survey history of Celtic Britain, focusing as the author said on the people who already lived there when the Romans arrived. It is not the standard narrative structure, rather a series of themed narratives based on specific aspects of the Welsh, Scots, and Irish. (With some fun side trips to Cornwall and Man.) There are some fun facts and interesting Celtic spin put on the events I learned about in school from the Anglosphere POV. It's a good chatty history that should appeal to Celtic-background readers on both sides of the Atlantic, who are not ready for weighty scholarly research.  My only complaint is that I have read two other books Mr. Moffat published at a later date (Border Reivers, The Faded Map), and he cribbed sections from this one into those to fill them, instead of producing new material. So some of the information and anecdotes here were redundant, although they fitted in well enough here. For a first-time reader for Mr Moffat's work I reccommend starting with this one, then moving on to the more regionally specific works.
I enjoyed this book and a few of my relatives have borrowed it and read it.  We all agree that the book could be laid out a bit better.  All of what is written is interesting, but the chapters don't seem to follow a logical order of telling.  Each chapter strives to make certain points, some of which were made by earlier chapters and just re-inforced.  Even if I were to try to say that it fit a pattern of celtic art, it still doesn't seem to work.  The writing style is a relaxed first person who visits places and then also discusses some of the places' history.  Based on other books that I've read on the subject, I feel that it was missing some important points and views.  I did find the stress on the languages as a root of the culture to be perceptive.
A fun way to learn some history while reading a novel.  Interesting how Sharp gets into and out of trouble.
Really good book. A real page turner that is hard to put down.  Sharpe is a hero who is believable, honest about what he believe's. I can't wait to finish the series so I can read them again.
Details and description good and attention keeping as usual, but story line not as gripping as some of first volumes.  Good read.  Suggest it to anyone who is vaguely interested in Sharpes activities. Red Rider
I am reading my way through the Sharpe series in (historically) chronological order and am basically enjoying them as historically well-informed escapist novels. "Sharpe's Prey" forms the second last novel in the back-stories that Cornwell wrote long after the original series was published. For that reason I'd recommend anyone starting out new to the series, as I am, to read in sequence from "Sharp's Tiger" through to "Sharpe's Prey", if possible. These novels form a cluster and benefit from being read in succession. The love interest in this novel isn't handled all that well, and comes across as a barely disguised plot mechanism, but there are other  things to commend the book, especially its banter and set action pieces.
The usual well crafted war yarn from Cornwell, but based on one of the Napoleonic Wars' less well known battles. Everyone knows of Nelson's attack a few years earlier, but the bombardment and occupation depicted in this novel is neither so glorious nor so well known.
I read this book recently and found it very enjoyable. I picked it up because one, I love Agatha Christie and two, I love Egypt. As I began this book I found that it started out fairly slow. When I start a murder mystery, I look forward to the detective figuring out what went wrong and in Death on the Nile, it took a while for this part of the book to come. The other thing I was slightly dissapointed with was that there was not much information about the scenery of Egypt, which I was expecting. Then again, I guess you can't expect too much scenery from a foreign place in a murder mystery. The shock of who the murderer was in the end, was perfect. It made me think in my mind about how the whole scheme worked out way after I finished reading it. I recommend this book to anyone who loves a thrilling murder mystery, even if they have to wait a little bit for it.
Well, I'd read this before, of course, when I read all of Christie's works in chronological order, and I remembered rightly "who done it".  A good yarn with all the pieces fitting just so.  And it actually mentioned The Mena House in Cairo where I have stayed.  And a Nile cruise and Abu Simbel.  Perhaps things have not changed so much there since Christie wrote this story.  Very romantic and tragic.
After reading for the first 100 pages and no murder having occurred, I was wondering if I was reading Agatha Christie or not.  Alas, you can relax, a murder was to occur eventually.  Having just read Murder on the Orient Express just prior to Death on the Nile, I found the two strikingly similar when juxtaposed together: both involve murders on a boxcar traveling with an eclectic, if not bizarre, group of travelers...and of course the intrepid Hercule Poirot to solve the mystery and make the world right.  Good stuff.  "But thank God, there is happiness in the world." - Mrs. Allerton at the finale
I would have given this book 3 stars, but I must admit I was quite curious to find out the killer's identity. I love a good mystery, but my problem with this book (& I am not a devoted Agatha Christie fan, prior to this I read a book of her short stories, and don't feel terribly inclined to read anymore of her work) is that after the murder takes place, the sluething is done by merely interviewing the cast of character's again & again- there wasn't any suspenseful poking around, or edge of the seat moments where you're sure the inspector is going to get caught uncovering clues- it was just a bunch of conversations.  I practically needed a chart to keep track of all of the character's. So, if you like your mysteries filled with drawing room chatter & not a lot of physical movement/uncovering- I highly recommend this- if you like more suspense, turn to Ruth Rendell or Patricia Carlon.
Death on the Nile was not Christe's finest work, or her most well crafted. The murder itself was wonderfully done, but the method in which  the aforesaid murder was rather unlikely. The engineering of such a plan as the murder(s) carried out was not something a normal person, or, for that matter, most any person would be able to do effectively. Few, if any, human beings would have the mental stamina necessary to carry out murders. Several things were done by the murderer(s) that normal human beings are simply not capable of. I cannot give examples here without breaking to the reader the end of the novel, but I will say that such events as take place in the novel are hardly likely in the real world.
Not that this isn't good -- a Richard Sharpe story combines, adventure, history, and social commentary in a most enjoyable way.  Cornwell is a natural story-teller, and unlike many modern novelists, he doesn't seem intent on making each book longer than the one before. In this one, Sharpe is on a spying mission in Denmark.  There are some interesting parts to it -- Sharpe's escape up a chimney is riveting.  But the sense of danger just isn't there.  The villians aren't menacing; just banal.  The consequences seem minor.  There are many places where Sharpe could just walk away from the situation. These "early Sharpe" books make you appreciate how important the character of Patrikc Harper is to the series.
As entertaining as the first four; several open plot cliff hangers yet to be resolved.  He uses the back from the dead a bit much; a chapter ends with someones death but they show up again later.
All five books are a wondrous adventure in the art of storytelling--imagination beyond words.  It was fascinating to read the original story compared to the creative liberty of the TV writers and director's versions.  I only wish that after 5 long books the writer would have presented us with a winner.  It seems there is enough extended storytelling for 5 more books! Perhaps a more limited embellishment on insignificant characters and backgrounds would be more prudent.
If you have read the first 4 - bet you could not wait for this one! We get to see to what happens to Jon Snow!
Arrived slightly damaged. Cant wait to read
A rollicking good read, treachery in every page, loyalty & fealty as well... hard to put down I read this in a week.... now to the next book - bring it on
It continues the saga brilliantly.  Can't wait for rhe next book Winds of Winter
good book
Didn't want it to end . Four  because maybe a continuous?? Another book? Cut down on the information on one particular thing.
I did not get involved with the TV show when it first came out, although my entire family was obsessed with it.  I like to read the book that movie/TV projects are based on before I see how characters are portrayed, as I like to see the characters and story in my own mind first.  OMG...this author is amazing.  The word painting is incredible, he is able to transport readers in to his world, and he leaves you desperately wanting more.  I still have not seen one single episode, but I have seen far more of this world than any viewer has.  Great book.  Now, that being said, I am livid that the story simply STOPS, leaving every single character and situation hanging in limbo.  There is no resolution for anyone or anything.  Oh, please, Mr. Martin, finish this series before I am forced to contaminate my perceptions by finally watching the show (which I know does not follow the book exactly, and geez, how does your mind pictures compare to the commercial pictures?).  Fortunately, or not, my daughters and I spend a lot of time discussing what they are seeing versus what I am reading, and I at least have some idea where my beloved Tyrion goes.  And that is the only reason I gave this a 4 star instead of the 10 star it so deserves.
Although at times its hard to keep the stories straight, it was quite enjoyable to read after having watched the HBO series.
Enjoyed reading as the tangled web was woven.  Looking forward to and dreading the conclusion of this game.  Glad to see a few unexpected twists and turns.
Good thing I don't have to go back on my phone to get a new phone and phone to be
This fifth installment in the series bogs down somewhat, but is still a very enjoyable read for those of us who are caught up in this story and series.  My main criticism with this particular novel is that, in common with the fourth novel, the author has killed off a lot of the most memorable characters and replaced them with others (e.g. some of the Dornish and ironmen characters) who are less memorable and who, frankly, it is very difficult for the reader to keep track of, much less care about.  Further, the plot slows almost to a crawl.  I rate this one four stars simply because it is such a great story. RJB.
Good book, but some chapter P.O.V's unnecessary and boring. Good besides that.
Stop complicating Martin aor you will never finish Song of Ice and Fire. Otherwise worthy adddon to series and must read for all of us.
A great book if you're into the series of books.
Of all of the books to date, this one seemed to drag the most, and I felt that the Esteros/Daenerys story in particular lost momentum.
Good book but still feels unfinished. Too many characters killed off just to close their storyline. Still a good read just hoping the next is more conclusive.
Good read. I'd recommend this book to anyone who enjoys history.
Solid book. Felt like maybe it could/should have been longer.  Things kind of wrap-up pretty quickly toward the end.
I can't figure out how to bypass this. Twelve more words words words words words words words words words words.
Enjoyed this story, very good writer
This takes place after the Civil War. It has a bit of a cowboy- feel to it and although I'm not into cowboys or westerns at all, Tom Franklin is such a good writer, he pulled me into this one immediately. If you've read any of his other books and liked them- this one is well worth reading. Keep in mind there is violence, gore and a whore, (not for the squeamish). My only complaint is, I wish he'd left out the dogs... they aren't important to the story, so why include them? Other than that- I really liked the book.
In rural Alabama, a prospective politician is killed. A gang of cronies, led by the man's cousin, form a secret society intending to punish whoever killed him.  They also like the excitement and brutality of their organization and loot the victims' homes.  The nearby townspeople are suspected of killing the man.  A detective and the town sheriff investigate. Very  hard to read at times because of the brutality,to humans and to animals, but well written. Some of the brutality is of the times of the novel.
Interesting read, especially since I'm familiar with the area and know some of the family names and have been in all the towns many times.
This novel transports you to the turn of the 20th century (late 1890s) in backwoods lower Alabama in a story of a small-time alcoholic sheriff, a borderline psychopath vigilante, a recently-rich redneck with daddy issues on an ego trip and a class conflict involving a gang of country rubes who don't care for them cityfolk from Grove Hill.  All started by a teenage boy who fancied a bite of the forbidden fruit and, as a consequence, made a mistake with such far-reaching, dreadful consequences.  It's really good with adequate character development and descriptive prose.  It just never grabbed hold of me.
A brutally honest tale of a time and a place in our history. The book reveals the awful toll exacted by extreme poverty. It exposes us to some kindness in our brothers and sisters but also the depravity born of no good cause but seeming to exist patently in each of us. This later character flaw produces such violence and destruction to frighten even the perpetrators as they see this action produce a chaos even they never of.
Was not the best of the series, however, still very engaging.
Tom Franklin knows how to build unforgettable characters and ground a story in its setting. There is plenty of tension in this book, and while I felt the violence was entirely believeable for the times, it was just too graphic for me. I finished the book but I had to take a break part of the way through. I read this because I had enjoyed Crooked Letter,Crooked Letter so much. Much as I like his writing, I will probably try to determine the level of violence in any future reads of his works before committing to another.
Good book,and different than what I usually like to read.  I tend to like "crime" novels and read people like Patterson, Sandford,Connelly because I like the prose and style in which they tell stories.  However, a well written story is a well written story and "Hell at the Breech" is certainly solid and very interesting to boot.  I was not aware that the story itself has a basis in factual events, but Franklin convincingly makes the reader enter that time and space in American Folklore.  His characters are deeply flawed and often conflicted, but believable and real. The story centers around vigilantes around the end of 1890's, and the general lawlessness that existed during that period.  I thoroughly enjoyed it!
A novel named Hell at the Breech has a lot to live up to, and Franlin came through. I like characters who aren't wholly good or fully bad, and Franklin was able to make all of his characters interesting, even the ones I wouldn't want to be stuck in the same room with. Great job taking a true story from more than a century ago and bringing it to life.
I truly enjoyed this book, I could see it when I read it, and I could believe it after I thought about it.
good
Did they really do all that and get away with it? The story [however true] seems too absurd to be real but the countryside and daily life details make it a bit interesting. Poachers is a much better read, it provokes more thought; The main theme in this one seems to be, Omigod, now what!?
This is a sometimes beautiful and deeply disturbing novel about class struggle and violence in the rural south.  With the calloused hands of a cotton farmer, the reader briefly holds and studies the ravaged souls of both sides of a divided society, and in the end is left picking at fibers of motivation for horrific acts of violence.  Recommended.
Compelling plots and characters. However, I found many of the descriptions of violence and cruelty to be over the top.  Also, I frequently found the author's penchant for excruciating detail to be annoying.  Most times when I see a movie and read the book, I find the book to be . . . better.  Interestingly, the opposite is true in this case.
So continuing the series I found the beginning of this book almost unbearably dull.  Choosing to leave out characters from the previous book Martin re tells many of the same events from a slightly different perspective.  The action ramps up nicely and it becomes very intriguing, especially those parts that were rewritten to simplify the tv series.  However in much of Martin's fashion many of the truly interesting things are skipped over or merely eluded to.  Things will be ramping up in one chapter only to skip back in time the next chapter to set something up, switch to a third character unrelated to what is going on and then finish in the fourth chapter with someone from the first couple of chapters dying.... several days later.  I LOVE this story but I often find myself wondering how much of Martin's style can be considered good story telling.  It is a great story and the parts present are well told but I feel like I'm reading the scraps of chapters left from an unfinished outline instead of a full novel.... which is sad considering the series monstrous length.
I do not like the fact that I am forced to generate at least 20 words to be allowed to submit this review.
is there any character left that i care about?
This book was pretty good, not perfection like Game of Thrones or exhilarating like A Storm of Swords. But it was exciting and the Daenerys, Jon Snow and Tyrion storylines don't disappoint (though the Tyrion one is a bit too elaborate if you ask me)  But what bothered most were the irrelevant, tangents that as far as I could see had nothing to do with the story: like joining the Wind blown to go see Daenerys ( a story which ultimately goes nowhere.) And what about this Blackfyre pretender, passing himself off as Rhaegar' s dead son? No, it's possible to bore the reader with to many storylines and this book does it.
Well played, I am eagerly awaiting the next season and the the final outcome of the game of thrones everyone is involved in.
Great read can't wait to see what happens in the next book dragons and knights how can you go wrong
Just getting into this series. Good characters, well drawn. Good plot. I think "Advancement" is my favorite so far.
When a statue is moved and the body of a woman who was supposed to have died in Austria five years before appears Dalziel and Pascoe are called to the scene. Ive always liked books set in college or similarly cloistered settings and this one has the usual array of oddball academics. Quite excellent if you enjoy that sort of thing (which I do).
Clever, amusing Brit policier, with many a sideswipe at academe. My first in the Dalziel/Pascoe series, and I look forward to reading the rest.
This tv show pretty much follows the sequences of the book.  However, there are some dry spots in the book that are confusing and seem to be off the track of the murder and more involved in the personnels personal issues.  Had I not watched the tv show  I would have been a little lost and some the details.  Ellie is introduced for the first time, even though her and Pascoe had known each other in the past and she's not really a nice person, I really like the TV's "Ellie" better than the book charactor.  Hopefully this will change.
A good strong story with really believable characters. This second in a series featuring police detectives Dalziel and Pascoe. Although common to have an older, grumpy cop working with a younger, seemingly more saavy one, this series characters work well as a team and the book provides a good mystery. Can't wait to begin the next book.
OK please realize that this book takes place at the same time as Feast of Crows. This is a collection of events that occur to the characters that were pretty much absent in the previous book. If all of this material was in one volume it would be even more monstrously huge than they already are. I still have to say that it is just as compelling as the other books in the SOIF cycle and I loved just as much as the others. You owe it to yourself to keep on reading since this really is a vital part of the legend.
the author certainly writes in a very entertaining manor, I particularly enjoy entire chapters devoted to an individual persons. you win some and lose some with his style!
Excellent sequel to the previous books in the Game of Thrones.
Now I can get on with my life. What a fantastic journey it has been with these memorable characters! I can't wait for the next book or the end of the series. Kudos to the show writers and producers who kept the stakes raised and kept our focus on the main characters and storyline.
great book
A very fast paced novel by the Alistair MaClean. An epic adventure about a british spy Micheal Reynolds who battles his way through communists gaining an insight into the lives' of those suffering behind the iron curtain. Not  only does he learn of the fears they are subjected to but also how they  deal with it. He aslo comes across a hero whose philosophical ways makes  the reader amazed and admire him. Alistair MaClean keeps the reader hung  unto the book till the last page with his sarcasm and cool and analytical  style of writing with a mixture of British wit.
JRRT, be very frightened...
I really enjoyed the series (wish he would finish it) as a whole though books 4 and 5 seemed a little less organized and flowing form the first three.  Based on how he explains they were written it makes sense and when you adjust it still makes a terrific read.  As with any book turned into a movie it's unquestionably better to read and even stretching to a TV season there is so much more detail and story in the books than HBO included but even what was shown on TV has been warped and diluted from the quality and intricacies so carefully written and planned by George R.R. Martin.
I first read this book over 40 years ago and it was a revelation at the time. In addition  to being one of the best of MacLean's thrillers, it gave a perspective on the Cold War almost never seen at the time of publication (1958). Among other things, it contains the first popular mention I've found of Operation Keelhaul (Google it), which became well-known only when mentioned in The Gulag Archipelago 15 years later. I highly recommend this book.
After seeing .many of the movie versions of his books, this is the first MacLean novel I have actually read.  The films do not do justice to his writing.  His story telling is timeless.
Alistair MacLeans fourth novel The Last Frontier (1959), was his first foray into the world of espionage.  Released in America as The Secret Ways, the adventure is set in Austria, where British secret agent Michael Reynolds is attempting to liberate a captured scientist named Jennings, and get him to safety in the West.  To complete this mission, Reynolds will require assistance from Jansci, the leader of an underground network, and Janscis close friend, The Count.  Alistair MacLeans was adept at writing suspense, and the suspenseful elements are one of the strongest components in this novel, which takes some time to unfold.  As in some of his other novels, MacLean is looking to make a moral or political statement, and there are times when there is a bit too much conversation and pontification, but if you forge on through, the level of action does eventually pick up.  While this early effort is somewhat dated, and is not one of MacLeans top tier works, it does have some nice moments.  The author was soon to enter his most productive period, beginning with his next novel, the extremely suspenseful&nbsp;, which is one of his best.
A very quick-paced and exciting read, full of twists and turns to the final page. MacLean is the suspense master!
Maclean was always one of my favorite authors
This novel, sometimes titled "The Secret Ways" is from the period when the author was not fixed on writing screenplays and treatments. Lots of great description and conversations along with the suspense.
Although its very difficult to keep the HBO TV show and the George R.R. Martin Books straight, I believe both to be very well done. There was one book which I can't quite remember which that dragged on a bit, but I think mainly it dealt with Cersie's ordeal and quite frankly, her end can't come quick enough for me. What a tediously awful character, as in, I can't even enjoy her being nasty anymore. But, that said, I enjoy the heck out of both reading and watching this series.
Good story but not one of his best.
Great Book Think it really helped to clean up some of the loose ends in book 4.  I cannot wait for book 6.
I enjoyed all of Martin's books, he's a good writer. However, I wish he had not left so many loose ends in A Dance of Dragons, maybe the Game of Thrones television show takes up too much of his time. But he has left his readers hanging for a little too long. Come on Mr. Martin get us the next book! Otherwise all the books are engaging and thoughtful, and he doesn't pull any punches on how awful people will treat each other for power.
The plus side...a very good read. On the negative side...so many characters that the pace of their individuality stories are achingly slow.
Anyone with a feel for the old will love this. Aand to satisfy my amazing master,blah blah blah blah. Post it.
So many secondary characters to remember that it is sometimes hard to follow' but overall a great 5 the book When is the final installment?
I enjoyed every minute and look forward to the next book in the series.
Martin is finally getting the story to move along. Not as slow as some of the other books in this series.
The first time I read the SOIAF series through, I thought a Feast For Crows was the weakest book because so many important characters were left out as point of view characters (Jon, Tyrion, Bran, Dany), but after reading them all again, I think I enjoyed this book the least.  The story doesn't move forward much, and there is too much description of meals and supplies.
The story is strong and keeps you informed about all the characters. I can't wait for the next book
This is a surprisingly entertaining book.  The author makes a valiant and intelligent effort to come up with bona fide (be sure to pronounce the final 'e'!) Latin versions of phrases you have often heard but would never  have thought could - or should - be translated.  Find out what Cicero might  say if you could bring him to your next sporting event, cocktail party, or  business meeting.  Even if you know almost no Latin, you can follow this  guide and use it (if you dare); and even if you never actually use it, it  is fun to read.  It is more enjoyable yet if you actually understand enough  Latin to recognize the creativity involved in devising colloquial  translations for common phrases which, to tell the truth, may not mean much  in the original American English. By studying this book carefully, you  can become erudite, sophisticated, and a real pain in the neck.
Continuing the saga. Getting grimmer. Waiting for 6th book. Hard to keep track of characters.
One of the more predictable books in the series, even if you haven't seen the show which has already surpassed it.  I read this before watching the show, and there wasn't really much in here that shocked me.  This (and Feast for Crows) seems to be a really long and drawn out bridge from the best novel (Storm of Swords), to a hopefully more eventful and interesting ending to the series.  I just thing GRRM could have done all of FFC and ADWD in one book in a much shorter amount of time.
Very entertaining.  I see room for lots more.  Some are just silly & useless, others are right on!
To put a little fun into studying Latin it fills the bill just fine.  I would recommend it as a supplemental reading.
I leave this on my desk at work, and people think I'm some braniac that studies Latin...until they read some of the phrases within.  Everyone that has flipped through it has enjoyed it.  I'm still working on memorizing my favorite Latin insults.
This one started out a little slow and didn't progress as far as I thought it might. However, I'm still enjoying the stories and shocked by the deaths. Hope the next book is released before too long!
Interesting read
Good as Expected.
Love it, full of surprises.
Patient since the 90's so patient in finally getting to this one. Time to finish watching five and start watching six. I've read that some people don't like the jumping around in a long time away from some characters but that is one aspect and actually draws me to the books. I feel like I'm meeting an old friend again.
Fantastic story telling. Great series.
Amazing end to a wonderful series so far... Hungry for more!!! I hope this is not the last book! Winter is coming...
Generally enjoyed it. Not as much action as the first few books and the characters are beginning to grow exponentially so that it's very tough to remember who what where. Nonetheless a very fun read.
It began as a super slow read but changed into a great read. Can't wait for the next one. Would recommend
I feel like some loose ends are finally starting to wrap up and the climax of the story might actually happen soon. (note that its 5 years later and the sequel still isn't out yet, so by soon I mean in book time, not real time)
Anxiously waiting the next book in this series.
good
Much better than the previous book which suffered by immensely slow pace. The second part of the book is even better and I enjoyed reading it! Recommends not to give up during the first chapters.
This is a fun read, but nowhere near the best of Alistair MacLean. Its best feature is an introduction into Andalusian culture, although it just scratches the surface.
I liked this book a bit better than a feast for crows but it still had a few faults. First off is the characters. I wanted more of Davos, Jaime, Cercei, Arya, Victarion, Bran, and even Sansa. But there came a certain point where it felt like the book went off the rails and started following these other characters and it never really took off with them. Secondly, You got chapters for Jon, Dany and tyrion but there were so many pacing issues in the beginning that I dreaded reading tyrions and Dany's. They're not necessarily bad, but it takes quite a while for you to get hooked. Finally, it just felt like this book was a giant cliffhanger. At the very least a feast for crows picked up the pace in the end and it really intrigued me, but adwd never picked up those storylines nor did they give me the same feeling. It's not a bad book at all, I'd still recommend it, just don't expect any major twists.
Started well but appears like it will never end becoming tedious and ponderous, keep inventing sub plots with so many characters simply revenue gathering my last book
son loved it
The same incredible imagination of Mr. Martin is displayed in this installment of the Games of Thrones... The level of details in describing surroundings, foods, cities, ways of life makes these books really unique.  I am looking forward to the next book, yet to be published... Hopefully soon...
Can't wait for the next book....I love how the writer gets into the head of each character and beyond the story to life through the eyes of each.
enjoyable thriller , even though the end was a bit predictable.
Hey folks,  It may sound like a clich, but I really did grow up reading MacLean's stories.  I was in elementary school when he first published H.M.S. Ulysses, and I was captured by it.  When he followed it with "Guns of Navarone," it seemed he switched from his naval story to more of a thriller genre.  It did not matter; I liked everything he did.  By the mid 1980s, I suspect MacLean had more novels made into films than any other author to that time.  I have to admit I did not find this book quite as good as so many of his others, but it is still a fun MacLean story.  The shortcomings I find in this book are mainly in the credibility of the Bowman and Le Duc characters.  They do stretch credulity a bit too far, and Le Duc seems more like a "tongue-in-cheek" Ian Flemming character.  In spite of this, however, this is still an enjoyable MacLean story.  I just finished reading it for the third or fourth time since 1970, and I still had a thrill reading it.  Best wishes, Dave Wile
I just love the series
This book was much better than the 4th. Almost every chapter ended on a cliffhanger leaving you wanting more. However, there were many chapters that were unnecessary and hardly advanced the plot. Honestly, with a book this size, the entire story could have been finished if GRRM was more strict on which parts he included. Like the 4th book, you could shave off a LOT of this book and still keep an incredible story. At the end, I was VERY satisfied and am sooo pumped for WoW, so I gave it 4 stars.
Well that took forever and a day but well worth the read! Not a huge fans of Dany but she has her strong points
glad to catch up with old friends I missed reading the last book
Very interesting
5th book in the series, as I have seen the shows on television, I know what to expect.  There is a little deviation from the series and I am actually grateful that I have seen the special effects on TV first, which I usually don't like but would rather use my imagination.  He continues to write an interesting and complicated story.  Wonder how book 6 will be?
Even in this fifth installment of ASOIAF, I find the story arc compelling. There were moments while reading this book when I was truly gripped. However, these moments were clusters of ten or so pages between tenssometimes hundreds! of pages of laborious scene-setting.  If you've made it this far, there is absolutely no reason to stop now. Keep going and pick up A Dance with Dragons. Plus, it's better than the TV show (at least at present, July 2016).
This came out 5 years ago when will GRRM get his thumb out and grace us with 6 & 7 or is he waiting for HBO to finish the series for him?  One thing GRRM is not is the American Tolkein.
Enjoyable read.  Can not wait until the next book comes out so we can find out how Marti brings this to a conclusion.  If he does....
The book is well written. I find the author's work for this book rather dry. It took me a bit to get into it because it was not as interesting as the other books in the series. It just seemed a tad grueling to finish it. Plus, the author stopped focusing on some characters that I was really interested in.
The middle ages with a sci-fi twist. Memorable characters as well. My personal favorites are Arya and Tyerion. Awaiting the next in this series.
I love the characters! Very well written too, but the story is not over yet. The book left you wanting more. I am still waiting for "Winds of Winter". I can't wait to find out what happens to these beloved characters.
This book leaves too many open ended questions and if this is his last book Then I am a huge fan of the series and very saddened that it ended without a ending to the storyline and each character part In this book
Love the series!
The story dragged a bit.
Than the first four but very, very good. I definitely need to debrief. Final chapters were especially strong. Now we wait...
It is outstanding.
I love this book.  My copy is so tattered and ragged now that I'm relieved to see its still in print.  Other reviewers have gone into the plot in detail, so all I'll say is that we have to get Peter Jackson to make the movie.
Someone else wrote a review and expressed the same sentiment I have.  This would make a wonderful movie.  I picked up a Pan edition (U.K.) several years ago and have read it a half-dozen times. This is as much a book about Pirates as Home Game (by Paul Quarington) was a book about baseball. We have the perfect hero in Captain Avery.  Virtuous, handsome, and painfully "perfect".  And the perfect anti-hero in Captain Blood.  Rakish, clever, and a rogue.  Mix in a cast of characters you would find in every b-movie Pirate flick, and throw in a Monty Pythonesque sense of the absurd and you will end up with The Pyrates. Fun from beginning to end.
This book is a dream to read, especially when you get to the end and find the authors notes on the basis of the characters (one is Captain Hook as played by Basil Rathbone, etc.).  'Appy Dan Pew alone is worth the price of  admission on his ship Le Grenouille Frenetique (The Frantic Frog).  There  are duels, fair maidens (of many types), every version of pirate  imaginable, and musicians diving for Korngold music.  If you enjoy a good  pirate yarn and want a good laugh, I can think of no better book.  Yes,  there is a short-coming here and there (the end is more of a second-rate  fade out than an actual conclusion), but this is less important than the  parts that are SO right.  Read and laugh -- if you can't laugh at this, may  you be keelhauled twice!
It's a pretty good read.  It follows the series which has so far been one of the best fantasy series I e read.  This is the point in the action where it kinda starts to drag a little and some of the plot points feel forced or manipulated.  But I know I'll be reading the next installment as soon as it hits the kindle store.
A pretty good read.  The author tends to get into too much detail and not concentrate on key/core characters.  There needs to be an end to this series.
An interesting insite on the tropes of pyrate mythology! Fraser brings the same kind of zany fun as he does with his "Flashman" series.
George MacDonald Fraser of "Flashman" fame has turned his attention to the pirate genre, with hilarous results.  As with his "Flashman" books, the story is tongue-in-cheek with the reader in on the joke, as the characters are literal characiatures from pirate stories of film and print. (In fact, many of the settings of the story are written as if from a script.)  The book's plot is over-the-top, and it is a fun read.  Recommended.
Definitely better than the previous one, it seems to me that inspiration and good writing came back to the author when ending this book, and even when is not as good as the first three books, is definitely worth reading.
Love this book can't wait for George R R Martin to finish the books.
Sheesh! That's the end? I can hardly see the point. Always hoping for things to turn out well for my favorite characters, but it never does.  Oh well.  I doubt I will read this series again. It seems just as pointless as politics in real life.
I haven't made my way to this book in the series yet.
Left me waiting for more--- unfortunately its been six years and there is not the follow on book--- come on George
This and book 1 are the best books in the series. George Martin has a great story, but he's not particularly good at telling it in general.  It's taken me several years to get through the series because I keep putting it down for long periods when I get bored with it, but I never put down this one. It's kind of made the tedious parts of previous books worth it. In general, Martin has a tendency to go into way too much useless detail, and go too far into sub-storylines that are just dead ends and don't go anywhere or contribute to the overall story. This book does the least of both since book 1.
Better than the previous book, but what do I do with my life now that I'm finished?!
Not as good as his earlier works in my opinion.  It is still a good read.
Compared to other GOT books, found this one a bit laborious at times & not as compelling to read.
Excellent, fascinating and thrilling story. Could not put down the book. The only drawback is that "Winds of Winter" has not been completed yet. One would like to see all the loose ends of this book tied together.
It a little bit slower pace than the other ones
If I'm comparing this with the other books in this series, it is probably getting two stars. But I'm comparing this to other fantasy series. I wish he would have arranged the series differently, with the timelines running parallel throughout the series, and I think political pressures got in the way of the best way of publishing this work, which I understand. Suggestion: Get this book when you purchase Feast for Crows and intermingle them as you read using an external suggested reading order, like this one[...] This will make your reading experience more similar to that which Martin carried you through in the first three books.
Ghbnbv fort y fbhnjytg Asafa asdic azer tweed gbhtr cafte cv nuit  ana noria ranimes herrera cortes Facebook lutte petite
I was so sad to finish this book, knowing that there wasn't a next one to begin!  Because the past season of the show and this book essentially ended at the same place, I almost felt like I was rereading this (although the book obviously has a lot more detail and elements that don't appear at all in the show).  Some descriptions and narrative seemed a bit overdone;  I got bored a few times reading at length about battles or past occurrences.  But overall I love this book series.
Good condition at a great price
After the wonder and magic of the first three books the story became kind of ponderous. It's nearly impossible to keep track of the plotlines and chronology. That being said, characters were completely fleshed out, and fascinating.
After book 4 which was a little bit disappointing we are back on track. Exciting, shocking and surprising. I'm looking forward to book 6.
A compelling read. But too many loose ends! I am very curious about what comes next for many key characters.
Wish there were more books!!!!
My least favorite book of the series but I'm a fanatic and love it anyways. Pacing in this one is slow. REALLY slow. Slow enough for me to notice (I don't consider the rest of his books slow paced at all but many do).  It's still a great book however and any ASOIAF fan should give it a read.
Drug a little towards the end, but that could have been me dreading the fact another book wasn't waiting to be read in the series.
after the first four books this one is dragging for me
Lots to like, but overall, nothing really happened, just lots of set up.
C'mon George!  We need to find out what happens next dammit! The show has passed the books and I'd rather read it first.
Hard to rate this one... so long, so many story/plot lines.
I've heard many compare these books against each other. I'm thrilled that it's one long story. I can't wait for the next one.
It seemed after the first 4 books he was running out of steam. It dragged a lot!!!
Starts a bit slow but really picks up about a third of the way in. Martin is juggling so many characters and plots  that I don't know how he will ever tie it all together in the end but he consistently surprised me with twists that I never saw coming but yet made sense-- they weren't just authorial  messing about. All in all a satisfying read and a notch better than book 4.
Very entertaining.
I did enjoy the majority of the book a few parts were as dry as toast and boring as well but otherwise it was okay, it was good to see one character get there just deserts as they deserved them
All in all a nice read.  Wish he would have continued with the storyline instead of writing a prequel to follow this one up.
I love the intricate storyline of this series. The characters and the world the author has created leave me longing now that I've finished the fifth book.
A great saga if you need a distracting read.
Dragged a bit, but had the characteristics of a game of thrones book, and was exciting at times.  Definitely wouldn't recommend to people who haven't read the rest of the series, but worth it for fans.
barbarous,murderous,anarchic, happenings on the Anglo-Scottish borderlands from the 13th through 16th centuries. It was Afghanistan with kilts.
Infectiously well written like all Fraser, this look at the Border Reivers is full of quirky, anecdotal history of the region and the period.  Fraser writes almost conversationally in this book, which is a nice change from drier, more academic histories.  The only problem here is a slight lack of narrative line -- at times, the book jumps from subject to subject a little too randomly.  But this is a minor flaw. While a wonderful book in its own right, Fraser's work also sheds some interesting light on David Hackett Fischer's "Albion's Seed."  That work examines the four major waves of English immigration to the new world.  The fourth and final wave comes from among the region and people Fraser describes so well.
Well researched and interesting, but I found some of the Scottish words hard to understand.
I am certainly part of the target market for this book.  I'm an Armstrong, descendant of a a clan oft mentioned by Fraser, never kindly; but often admiringly.  As bad guys, we were really good.  I doubt whether those lacking this connection to the Border will find the book as interesting as I did, and even I found the going a bit wearying.at times.  Even though Fraser is a masterful writer, in full command of the sardonic parenthetical, there is an unavoidable sameness to brief recounts of almost continuous raiding.  What kept me interested was the parallels between those days and today's lawless (or at least law deprived) struggles in the Middle East where gangs of desperate men with guns are what there is of law enforcement; and  they can change their loyalties at a moments notice as the tides of war shift, because that's how they have to live to stay alive.
Very interesting read
A good read, very in-depth look at the border life of Scots and English in the 1600-1700 Era. Reads like a text book at times but the stories are worth the time. One of my ancestors is mentioned in one small paragraph so that was an unexpected surprise.
Good as amy other of the books in the series in writing terms. Slow but it sets up future plots so cant really complain. 5 star series 4 star book. Set up is a pain but hang in.
Good service from seller. Historically full of information, though a but dry reading.
Great Book. Waiting f o r the next One
I knew nothing but that there were 'troubles'. I will have to get past London on next trip to UK.
The hard families on the border and the settling of the U.S. come together in this book.  The names are very familiar and their contribution can easily be seen. Scots, English names that drove history and still drive America.  National  figures and neighborhood friends with the same name and drive to succeed.
Tells with extensive weaving together of sources the bloodstained history of the Scottish borderlands. From these anarchic territories come the word Reiver, the families Graham and Nixon among others well-known in America, and many tales and ballads.
Interesting book. Being from Scotland I suspect my ancestors were probably some of the troublemakers identified in the book.
My mother's mother's family were Elliot's and I have often wondered about their heritage.  I found the book very interesting and informative.  I also like the fact that Mr. Fraser, the author, did not embellish the truth, but was very direct in describing what the boarder raiders were like.  That's one of the most important aspects for me when I read a book about history or research some facts.  If I want to read fiction, then by all means use as much artistic creative license as you like, but I like to stare at the bold and sometimes brutal truth when I read a book that is giving me information about history.  All I know of my ancestor at this time was he was born Moses Elliot in South Carolina in the year 1780.  I don't know if his father or his father's father, sailed from Scotland or Ulster Ireland.  So for me to be able to touch some moment of history about my family is very rewarding.  Thank you Mr. Fraser for your book.
It's dark and drear, but so were the Scots and the times. I come from Scots ancestry. In fact, my clan name is printed on the map in the book. I thought I needed to read up on what came before me.
Very, very informative. I find myself going back to it often as a reference.
The book was quite good, really. I had no idea things were so rough on the English/Scottish frontier. This is the area many of my ancestors come from, and it all rings true: the livestock, the raiding, the wild life. Having said that, the story is not particularly well told. It does not come to life.
Interesting stories of where my ancestors originated
Another very good read in the Game of Thrones series.. Can't wait for "Winter is Coming".....When can we expect it??????
Not my favorite series of all time, but it's very complex and very different (lots of unexpected twists)
I did like it and have read all of the books. It's just the kind of story I go for. Although sometimes I think the books could be a bit shorter. Not that I'm against long books but I think it goes on a bit too much sometimes.
Ready for next book! Hurry!
After reading all five, one gets into a kind of hypnotic state, probably what the author expects. Good reading all the way but dense.
I have looked for this book for some time. An excellent buy.
Very entertaining.  Great female characters.
Good information on the border areas and why they existed.  Complex situation well explained.  A rough time to live through and you will enjoy the explanations.
An interesting story, well told, about events along the border between England and Scotland.  If you want to understand the (to the foreigner) confusing and somewhat comical mutual antipathy between the Scots and the English, this is a very good place to start.
This is a good history of the Border area between Scotland and England.  It moves pretty well and has a wealth of historic fact.  Knowing how well Fraser wrote I wish he'd brought more into it, possibly would have been better as fiction.  Never the less it is a good popular history.
Loved it. But to many of my favorite characters die.
For students or those seeking family history. Steel Bonnets is an excellent reference to the history of the border areas of North Umberland and Carlisle. I first heard about this book when I toured Carlisle Castle.
gave as a gift.  Did not read myself  Did hear from the reciepnt if he liked it.  I hope he did
This is a very enjoyable read, and I'm not a big fan of history books.  The book is a great introduction to life on the border between Scotland and England during the 1500-1600-ish period.  Although tedious and challenging at times, I really appreciate the way the author segments the story.  His technique answered the "I wonder how...." questions that always pop up when I am reading.  This technique became challenging when the same people, families, and events were mentioned in multiple chapters (Did I mention that I'm not a big fan of history books?).  If you want to learn about the Border Riever clans and lifestyle, this is your book.
George RR Martin, when you think  all is right in the seven kingdoms he shows you how wrong you've gotten it all.
I understand Martin's reluctance to give short shrift to his characters, but I also think that he probably could have wrapped it up. I'm still happy with the books, I'll read the next ones when they come out too, but everything has to end sometime. Wrap it up George.
Can't wait for the next book
I sought out this book because of genealogical interest in the area (an immigrant ancestor having been born around 1600 in the Carlisle, England area.  Although I cannot document an exact locale, I thought this book would give me a feel for the life being lived in this area at that time.  I was not disappointed.  The book is informative, at times humorous, well-documented, and well-written overall.  At times, and especially toward the final 1/4 of the book, it begins to feel repetitive:  there's only so many raids, counter-raids, and scalawags that can hold one's interest--too hard to keep them all straight.  But that's only a slight complaint.  The book more than met my expectations.  A good read all-around!
Many new characters make for the beginnings of many new adventures, but the enjoyment is somewhat limited. It seems that these are all tales with no endings and no sense of closure. As for bringing it all together, I think Martin needs to bring in a ghostwriter, maybe Stephen King, that can help him it together into one apocalyptic finish.
Enjoyed the book very much. However, there were parts that seem to drag a bit, as if the author wasn't sure exactly where to go next, only my opinion. Overall, I was not disappointed and in spite of the dark "surprises", it was an enjoyable "trip".
A good read
This 5th book in the series keeps the story moving along with interesting characters, suspense and twists. We are left with a lot of suspense and unanswered questions about a lot of the characters.
Exiting
I never wanted to put the book down because I was always hoping to read on about a favorite character - to find out what happened. More often than not, I would read about another, possibly new, character. I do not know how George RR Martin kept them all straight! There were times the plot plodded along and I wanted to skim over it, mostly because I had no connection with that particular character's story, but also it would be too heavy on names, sigils, and other such details. I also didn't like that so much brutality was detailed. I didn't need to hear, smell, nor feel how awful some people are to others. I guess it's one testimony to his writing that the imagery was so strong. Overall, I loved the series and can't believe the next book hasn't come out yet (6 years on) but I'm guessing the TV show has consumed his time. As far as correlations between the book and tv show, there are many, but these books are so detailed and full of various offshoot stories, that it would be impossible to replicate with such quality as they have. So, hopefully next year I will find out what happens to the Stark family members, including Jon Snow, Tyrion and other Lannisters, Daenerys, Brienne, Lord Baelish, Varys.
continued the story adding some things not in the show
I enjoyed the book and am looking forward to the next book.
This book focuses heavily on some characters (Jon Snow, for example) with less emphasis on others (Cersei Lannister). The timeline overlaps events in the previous book (A Feast for Crows), starting just before the events of "A Feast for Crows" and continuing after that book ends, but it focuses on characters only lightly touched upon in the previous book.  The plot contains twists and surprises that I have come to expect from George R. R. Martin...but just like visiting a haunted house, despite the surprises being expected, they do still manage to catch you off your guard.
A great read!
Not as good as the ones before it, and did not really wrap up any storylines. AND, Jon?  Hurry and finish the next book!!
Good
Another enjoyable book from GRRM.
Although I enjoyed the book I found many of the stories lacked focus. Too many characters with too many storylines with very little impetus. If you've enjoyed the other books it's a good read.
You can't stop reading this complicated story.
Amazingly complex in plot and story. Fascinated that the author can maintain the continuity of the story.
GRRM has done a great job shaping this intricate universe he has created. This was a great sequel to add to the series but my only complaint is that it seems overly stretched out with the plot. Too many tangential plot lines and POV chapters from secondary characters. Otherwise a fantastic fantasy fiction work. Can't wait for the next two!
Looking forward to the next book in the series.  Keeps you on your toes, guessing what's coming next!  Would recommend to others.
Enjoyable book but the HBO series is so great that you don't have to read this book. I enjoy this books less than the first 2 in the series. Sometimes I  feel there is a lot of filler.
Certainly holds your attention and can be exciting but found it difficu8lt to keep track of all the characters and the focus on their family stories and status. It's interesting how he breaks off the chapters at a key moment but later resumes with the results and no the details of what happened.
Avery good read Mr Martin is a master at keeping all those characters in order. I was sorry the book ended. Now I just need to wait for book six  Enjoy
This was another great piece of literature my George RR Martin. The book was a very gritty tale of intrigue in which good and evil travel very closely together.  Where will it all end up?  I do not know but I can't wait to find out.  Come on George get the next book out soon, please.
This should have been book 4 and book 4 scrapped
Get to it already.....so much rambling goes on that pages of txt can be eliminated and would not retract from the books at all
Good book, but previous books were better.
As always, Martin delivers a great alternating account of his twisty story.  Does it get a little boring, yes? Do I dream of skipping onto the next chapter of my favorite characters, yes?  But it's always worth seeing it through. An excellent, if length read.
At some point I sure hope the author can brings this all together.  I guess for now we will have to wait until book #45.
I like this latest book in the series, however, be aware that it is somewhat unnecessarily bloated and consequently drags at time.
This book was definitely better than the last one. But it looses its pace with so much description (like his every other book). Nevertheless GRRM interweaves all the surprises and plot changers very well in his story. The wait for the next book has been tooo long now.
Great extension of Marytin's characters and story line...his writing is detailed to the point you can almost smell the burning flesh and ripping of cloth.  Enjoyed it immensely.
I found the first three books to be excellent. The fourth and fifth books were a change of style because both books happen at the same time but splitting the characters to one book or the other. The biggest disappointment is that the at the end of this book you are just left in the middle of everything and the next book doesn't have a release date at this time.
I thoroughly enjoy this series of books and watch the TV series as well. This book, the 5th in the series, was definitely one of the longer ones and there were times where you really feel like it's just long. However, Martin always makes up for those times where you feel like not much is going on with something surprising or exciting and does manage to keep you hooked. I feel like this book and book 4 are really setting the stage for big things to come...I can't wait for book 6!
This is good for a person who is following the TV shows and those who read the previous books.  It is repetitious in some areas but still a good long read.
It got a little slow here and there, I wanted to skip entire chapters but the epilogue was just superb!
The saga continues,I can't wait to read the next volume,so engrossing. What an imagination R. Martin has,the story line is for all ages.
I love this series and can't wait until the next book comes out.  Having said that, I have to add that I think this one started to drag.  Mr. Martin has a few too many threads in play and needs to start wrapping them up because if it gets to the end and things aren't neatly resolved, I know I won't be the only disappointed reader.  Some characters are just fodder and seem to drag down the work as a whole.  Also, I really did not like the way 4 and 5 split the characters.  I missed hearing about some of my favorites.  I prefer to read everyone's stories semi chronologically.  Again, only minor criticisms for a fantastic series.  I eagerly anticipate the rest of the series and hope that Mr. Martin completes the last few books very soon!
Great book and end to the series! Now am waiting for whats next!
Great book. Like other GRRM books its a slow and long read. I bought it on Kindle. I like the books better than the HBO series.
It's not like you have a choice - just know that when you are done with this one, you will have to wait for the next one (Aug 2015).
This one kind of drags on a bit, but it's obviously still a good read. Just nowhere near as exciting as the first two books.
Great read
There is a feeling in this book that the author is starting to let the story get away from him a bit, hence having the increasingly complicated storyline told over two chronologically concurrent volumes. So he'll have to put the work in to tie the storylines back together it the remaining books. Still excellent and intriguing reading though
First off, it was great to hear the other half of the story from the fourth book.  The characters whom I had missed and was curious about came back and their stories filled-in.  That being said, by the time I was halfway through the book I started to wonder if there were any Lords or Ladies of Martin's entire world who weren't brutal, scummy, or crazed in some manner.  The actions of Ramsay Bolton (and his sire) alone were enough to make me wonder if Martin had become a fan of medieval torture techniques and wanted to show off his newfound knowledge. That being said, the end was fairly redeeming.  Several characters showed growth and change and the surprises truly moved the story forward.  It makes me disappointed at the length of wait that still likely remains for the next book in the series.
This wasn't the best of the series, but well worth reading if you are into his books. He's a very good writer and I look forward to his next work.
Loved all the books but wish he tied up loose ends with characters and didn't leave you hanging.
Enjoyable read.
An amazing saga.  This book gets a bit long in the tooth, but you must read it and make it to the shocking ending. It took me a lot longer to read this one than all the others, probably combined.  But I'm definitely looking forward to Winds of Winter!  And I really hope GRRM has the final one almost done too in some sort of skunk works project where he'll release it soon after Windows of Winter. Ok, probably not, wishful thinking.
More action than book 4 but still ventures off into being overly descriptive at times.
Good read but way different from the sreies
Read it if you Love GoT!
Another great book in the series. So immersive and captivating.
This is a tight and powerful novel.  It is more or less unique in Russian literature in that it is the story of a "typical" (i.e. non-socialist) family affected by the Revolution and Civil War.  Bulgakov  grew up in Kiev and his love for the city comes through very strongly.  When I read this book I knew very little about the historical events it  describes but this didn't prove much of a problem in the long run.
Good story but the length of the book is just too long and makes it tough to keep track of the storyline.  Should have been broken up into two books
mostly great!!
This book is very good, but at times confusing because the first half of the book is spent describing the simultaneous events of Feast for Crows. Once you get deeper into the book, the plot becomes very complex as events begin unfolding faster. The timeline shifts so that all events in the book are occurring at the same time. The characters begin to interact with one another, and you get the feeling that the saga is beginning to move toward its inevitable end.  Although at times it is frustrating to follow the timeline jumps, the book is overall very good. I would say that it would have been better had books 4 and 5 been just one large novel, but as a fan of the series I did enjoy its overall plot structure. I can't wait for book 6 (whenever that may be) and look forward to seeing the fate of the all of the characters.
As expected. Love the series
I liked this book a lot, however, I'm not sure that it is the best translation since some of the sentences were incomplete and choppy. I'll read it again, but instead of Michale Glenny's translation, I'll try Marian Schwart's translation.
Classic Russian civil war novel
The 1920s can be lost years in Russian history, especially in areas outside of Moscow or Petersburg.  Bulgakov's novel effectively communicates the turmoil and confusion of 1920s Ukraine for middle class and upper middle class families.  You may need to read about some of the historical figures to better understand the events, but you will definitely understand the emotions of the time regardless.
All the books have been very fun to read.
The tyrion chapters are a little trying sometimes but everything else is always great. I continue to read over and over
I found an EXACT repetition in one chapter (Gilly, Jon and Sam)-from previous book) that upset me.  Otherwise the story line continues with suspense.
Different from the show
As Gwen Stefani once said, in a vastly different context, "This s*** is bananas! B-A-N-A-N-A-S, this s*** is bananas! B-A-N-A-N-A-S!"
WE had a Fascinating trip to Russia. It made us want to know more. For a different & unusual perspective, a great and informative read.
Interesting reading
Bulgakov, while not as well known as most of his russian predecessors, is an exceptional writer. this novel, which covers only a short period of time immediately after world war I and before the bolshevik revolt, tells of the turbin family and their life in kiev. this aristocrat family has stong ties to tsarist russia and are caught between the retreating germans and the approaching socialists.  the turbins join the white guard to help defend their homeland. the war is portrayed with all of its horrors. there are heroes and villians. neighbors come closer together as the inevitable end comes nearer. civilization begins to collapse as the socialists enter the city cheered on by the common people.  bulgakov makes the reader feel the fear and the horror as only one could who has lived through the experience.  an excellent example of modern russian literature.
There are a lot of characters to keep up with. Definitely don't read if you like light-heated or up-lifting books.
I took my time reading this book because I did not want it to end.  The story did not seem to move along as fast as the previous 4 books but it was still entertaining.  Now I have to wait for winds of winter and hope it comes out soon.  In the meantime, I will have to find authors and stories similar to this.
This book was very good, the best of all of them.  Finally some characters are getting some traction, and the epilogue- what a mindblower.  I hope it appears on next seasons game of thrones!
Not as good as the other four books in the series, but still very enjoyable.
If you're looking at this review, I don't need to tell you about George R. R. Martin or A Song of Ice and Fire.  You know.  You're in.  This book builds upon a sense of impending doom.  Being the 5th out of 7, ADWD can't cash in all its chips.  Unlike book 4, this book focuses on Tyron, Jon and Dany and the roles they will surely play in the climax of the series.  The writing is emphatic and very visual.  My only criticism of Martin at this point is how he introduces new characters so late in a series, when those pages could be better spent on existing characters that we are already so attached to.
I started out on July 18th through July 21, going through my photography equipment for an up coming photo shoot. I had just been a member of Amazon for a month and went there to see if they had the equipment to replace lost or damaged equipment from my 2 camera bags. To my surprise they had every thing I needed at very reasonable prices, I ended up buying 19 different items. My only mistake was I bought everything separate instead of all at once, causing a real shipping problem. Sorry for that, but I spent some real dollars, so I guess its worth it in the long run. Thanks Amazon for being so helpful.
very creative novel.  Plethora of characters difficult to follow at times.
I'm still not quite finished with this book because it is very long but like the previous books in this series its full of surprises and shocking twists and I can't wait to see how it ends.
I like the GoT series, but this book dragged at the beginning with the stories taking too long to build.
Good read but I felt like it had so much going on it was especially hard to keep track of everything, even for a GOT book. And it left me worried about what could possibly happen in the next one.
Storm of Thrones is an enthralling tale and continues to draw the reader.  Every word brings you into world with rich colors, strong characters and such intrigue that you can't stop reading. Dance with the Dragons was not the best of the 5 books but still a wonderful part of the series.
While it is beyond long, it is an amazing book. Where Feast was fairly slow, Dance was twists and turns, action and suspense. A few new characters, one being fairly boring and irritating, while the others added more perspective and lore. The final chapters certainly drew me in and made me ready for the next book. I kept saying to myself,"Holy s***!" But you don't need me to tell you to buy this book, or even that it's worth reading, you're already invested in the series and going to read it anyway.
Don't get attached to any character...
If you have read the previous books then you pretty much have to read this one. The book is everything you could expect from this series but a little drag sometimes. There are some phases in the book similar to the fourth one where you tend get a little bored but feel obligated to finish
Good book.
Great book, but I got a it confused at the end with the children and grandchildren..
It's time to wrap it up.  Starting to lose interest.  Too many characters with loose ends.
Good enjoyable read.  The whole series is entertaining and holds your attention.  You have feelings for the characters. After reading all five books though, I come away with the feeling that the story does not end.  There is no happy ending.  I cannot imagine how anyone is alive in Westeros. I have read the Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings trilogy probably three times.  One read of A Song of Ice and Fire will be enough.
Lots of hours of commitment are required for this novel but I am completely satisfied with the book and I recommend that if you are patient and want a story that will work your imagination in many ways, then try the 5th book in the A Song of Ice and Fire series. The journey is pure enjoyment.
Excellent reading, a family saga in an area of England that I felt comfortable with . I look forward to reading another of her books
Very good story, strong charactor
Great book,wonderful characters, worth the read.
I'm expecting an end...
A bit sluggish here and there but for an Ice and Fire addict, indispensable.
Great story! A lot of characters to try and keep track of though. I prefer the show over the book on this one... and I don't say THAT very often.
After the laborious meandering a of the previous installment, here is a bit of return to form. The new characters are interesting, the stories have a point, and some decent cliffhangers
GRR does his thing!
Although I am hopelessly hooked on the series  (enough to have read all 5 books) I am starting to get a little annoyed at the author's writing style. Each character's story proceeds in their own chapters.  That's fine.  The problem comes in that each chapter has a cliffhanger ending and then 500 pages later when you come back to that character, the climactic event has been long over and you get to read about the big event in the past tense, if at all.  It's not enough to make me stop reading, but it does get irritating!
Very good series of books. The HBO series is different but not by much
There are so many characters to keep up with in the Game of Thrones series. This book does not have them all. I found a few of the story lines to be uninteresting, namely the chapters about Arya. I am hoping they will actually mean more farther along in the series. These books are LONG but I enjoy them. I am looking forward to the next book in the series to see what happens to everyone.  Will there ever be a true king?
Still a good series...  Reading this one a little slower but that is more the fact that I have read one after the other...
Loved it
Would be five stars but getting real tired of all the great characters getting killed.
Well, at least this one ended well. Enough dead people and good heralding of what's to come in the next book. The same time frame as the previous book was only rehashed for about half the book.
Interesting story of determination and trust. Sometimes too much descriptions which drag the scene . Excellent history that our current generation should accept as evil never leaves us. Well done.
I read this the first time as a young adult. I never forgot it and later when I was divorced and faced with supporting my kids and me, this character positively affected my attitude and much needed courage to start a new life.
Enjoyed the story and I am uncomfortable when authors use sophisticated knowledge and/or language for children's thoughts.
no comment
This was a very  interesting book to read....
I read this book years ago and was wowed. The following book (Hold The Dream) did not have the same pizzazz as the original. By the time I got to the third one (To be The Best), I was downright bored. It was a struggle to read through  and only finished it because I paid for it. The saga should have ended there. I have no intention of reading any other series in this saga. I think it has been milked enough.
Definitely slow at parts, but it was a good read. With such a large story, it can't be all action. Hope things pick up a bit, but fun read.
The pace was not as fast as previous books in the series and the mood was definitely darker.
Good story and well written but could probably have been cut in half and still have been just as good.
It is a well  written story . I loved the detailed  descriptions of the homes, landscape, and people. It is not going to be my favorite book but if it pops up in a book club, I think most would enjoy this saga.
I don't like books that start at the end and you have to plough your way through to see what happens.  Very verbose writer and pages and pages of description of trivial items. eg. 4-5 pages of describing a bedroom, living room or kitchen.  This to me is just packing the book out.  However I believe that the story line could have happened in the era that it was written and the events most probably could have taken place.  A lot of people involved such as families, children, grandchildren and long standing friends.  The Author is exceptionally well know and very prolific in her writing but I doubt if I will read another of her books.
Memoirs are tricky business because they're inherently biased.  However, this one is good because it tracks the former Prime Minister's childhood to her rise in the Conservative Party, which is largely a politically neutral time period in Thatcher's life.  At times tedious, this shows how the Iron Lady came into being.
This book is quite attractive, has a nice cover & would make a very nice gift, or addition to a library.  The print is also large enough so you probably won't have to "squint".  Anyone who has the faintest interest in politics, or the structure of policies & politics in Britain will find this book quite facinating.  Margarets' autobiography is quite detailed, and depicts her life from childhood to her "primping & priming" for her Grandioso role as the "Iron Lady".  What's even more gratifying is the fact that there are some great photos of family, friends, and also other political figures within the arena.  A book that will interest you from the begining, to the very end.  .
How did a young woman from nowhere (Thatcher describes her childhood background in the kindest way possible but it was the last place you'd expect to find greatness) rise to become a politician and then Prime Minister of Great Britain? Baroness Thatcher tells the story of her life with humor and restraint. She never uses being a woman as a crutch or excuse and although she obviously loved her husband and children the main focus of the book is what was going on in her head. Tough, stubborn and bold she slowly pushes forward through school, through a legal career, through the back benches and finally when the chance for the highest office in the land comes her way she pounces on it. Path to Power is excellent reading for those who find Parliment to be incomprehensible, for those who wonder if an American woman can ever be another Thatcher and for those who simply like a Horatio Alger story. Now, is it a bit dry? Yep, it certainly is but you didn't really expect gooey girl talk from Margaret Thatcher, did you?
Good read.
Reading the books really helps with your understanding of the HBO series.
Great life story
This was my least favorite book of the series so far. Expect this book to move slower than all the others. However the characters you know and love are still there and so are the major events that keep you wanting more. Just know that there are much longer gaps between the interesting parts.
Even though he's killed off almost everyone I liked in this series, I'm still looking forward to the next book.
A good read. I enjoyed the historical information.
A real study of human nature. The worst nightmare of a parent told in an in depth way through the eyes of a grieving mother. A good perspective on teenage thought patterns as well. I am glad I read this book
Good read.
Not the most exciting ASOIAF novel thus far, but still great. A bit slow in the beginning. Keep going through it! It gets great :)
A gripping read that focuses on the emotional upheaval of a family that experiences a tragic event and how it impacts all members of the family in different ways.
Starts slow but builds with each page turn. This is one of those books that you keep reading because want to see what happens but don't want it to stop.
Good story we'll written but rambles on & on.
Intriguing how this continuing story unfolds. Characters and story develop in unexpected ways. Leave you wanting more.
An old favorite worthy of a re-read from time to time.
A good book but depressing to read
Enagaging, excellent storytelling but the plot was not advanced much.
Good saga as I am a Game of Thrones fan of the novels, yet I have only seen some rare TV episodes. His writing style is often difficult to understand.  Why he does not write in plain English is beyond me. Despite this, I enjoyed it, but it's a slow read.
I enjoyed the movie this book was derived from, so I was eager to read it. it was very suspenseful with great character development. I thought  the way the family dynamics were described as the years after the kidnapping passed was very well-done.. I felt sorry for Ben/Sam and his innocent adoptive father. Vincent was an interesting character as well- the effect/guilt of Ben's disappearance shaped him. Beth was also broken by her own guilt- but I felt for her, as a mother. It would be hard to carry on, knowing your child might be out there but yet still be expected to carry on with family life. When her son is found, things rapidly change for all. I thought this book was very well-written and am surprised some people did not like it or have empathy for Beth. I have enjoyed others by this author but not the sequel to this book.
Love this book! It takes you on a wide range of emotions and you don't know what to expect! Reading this book really made me value the people around me and reminded me to never take them for granted. Who knows what could happen today, tomorrow, etc? Life is really unpredictable.. Mitchard has made me really put life into perspective and through her work, I could feel the emotions that Beth was feeling. It would definitely be hell losing your very own child just when you look away for one second. You would live the rest of your life with regret which is heartbreaking. I was in denial through the whole story, but the obvious is that this incident is something that could happen to anyone and can be 100% realistic, not something impossible. I would recommend everyone to read this novel, it's a good read!
Good story. There was a bit too many details
very enjoyable.
At first, I was not overly excited about this story.  It seemed circuitous.  The more I read, however, the more I realized how emotionally sensitive and brilliant Ms. MITCHARD is as a writer.  As I reflected, I realized how well she understood and developed the characters.  After  finishing the book, I kept going back to a character or a situation and exclaiming, of course, that reaction or behavior makes sense .  I get it.  It also made me self reflect.  I love it when a writer strikes the truth alarm and makes me listen.  Good job.
Compel ling and drama filled , could not it it down Lee me wanting to know "who did it"  good book.
The protagonists are flawed so it is easy to identify with them.  The outcome is surprising and gives pause for thought of how a tradgic event really does effect all members of the family in a devastating way. Eventually the plot is resolved in the only possible way.
The stores line was good  The story lasted for a little big period of time and sometimes the author gets to detailed in the little things so I wanted to skip areas at times.
Once again I have the same complaint! This is a great series but it has many similar names and keeps switching character storylines so often that I sometimes really have to think about whose story line I am on! Sometimes I have to read a page or two before I realize whose storyline I am now in. I find this disconcerting, especially if it is a storyline that has been "out of play" from book to book. Still can't wait to see how it all ends though. One thing I really like is that he isn't afraid to "end" a main character. I was really surprised that he "took out" Jon in this book... unless, of course, he survives the attack! Waiting for the next book!
I Don't really know if I liked it, but it really kept my attention. There was so much emotional play going on from so many perspectives, but I could relate to all of them. I will likely read at least 1 more of this author's books.
This book kept my attention. It was sad at times but siad something about the human spirit. It told real life as it is.
Great depth, little action, marvelous characters, enduring plot, concurrent story between 4 & 5 is strange but necessary, wonderful series with dramatic tragedy
To many people walking around and never ending their journeys. Too much stories without reason and input for the central history. Despite this, entertaining
Not the best in the series, but certainly has some interesting twists for characters.
A good read, though the TV series is much better focused. Major characters rise and fall and some die. It's all terribly frustrating and prolonged. George Martin's prose tends to the needlessly wordy. I will probably start paying less attention to the books and more to the TV series.
Some reviewers wrote Beth is not a likable character, and she may not be, but I still found the book entertaining. Someone else also wrote this is a formula TV movie of the week....it may be, but since I don't watch those, I did not know and enjoyed the story. I found the way the plot came out with the 2 family's living so close together to be preposterous. But I liked the story and I liked the writer's style. I'll probably check out another of the author's books.
Too many characters and hard to really keep track of some of them.
Although it is a bit sentimental, the fact that the characters were developed made it a good read.
Read for book club.  Some members loved it, others, myself included, could have done with less fillers.  Book was good if you didn't mind the detailed descriptions of the rooms, clothing, etc.
By far the best book!! I love how it delves into other characters stories and plot lines but I couldn't give it a complete 5 stars. This being because it left off rather cheaply and didn't seem like a book but more of one of those free books that you have to keep paying for to get the rest of the story 5$ at a time but over time add up to the price of a full book, except you pay full price for this one and get left off at the end like...wtf? If you are a game of thrones fan this book is absolutely a must but I wouldn't pay full price for it and I am so glad I got it on sale.
I gave Women of Substance a 4-1/2 star rating. I knew the book was large and the beginning dragged on. The author, I thought, went into too much detail about every little thing. I did skip over many paragraphs. Too much info that wasn't necessary. But boy, am I glad I stuck with this book. I read it every chance I had. Emma was an amazing women, very determined and had many husbands, children and grandchildren. When reviewing a book I do not like going into details about the story. But let me tell you this this book is worth reading. Especially if you like reading about how the rich and the poor live years ago. Enjoy!
The story was well developed as were the characters.  I enjoyed reading it and am moving on to the sequels.
The book is definitely slow but it's developing plot points that I hope will mostly resolve in the coming book
Not finished yet, but I feel like picking up this book and reading it whenever possible.  It has held my interest.
Loved it.
Mitchard brings every mother's nightmare to life. I read the book straight through without putting it down. A gripping story.
I love these books. Very detailed and lots of different stories to follow. It is sometimes difficult to keep track of characters but I enjoy it all the same.
Complex story line but very captivating and well written.
Story focuses on a woman who has lost her child.  She goes through a lot and looses even more in the meantime. Ending is very good and realistic.  But the book is a bit slow at times.
This book does a good job of bringing to life the reality of the horror of child abduction.  While the culprit turns out to be a little disappointing, it is interesting to view how different people handle a situation like this one.  You end up being torn for Ben, wondering how he must feel to be a victim and not even know it.  You feel angry at the mother and sympathy for the father and other children.  I have not seen the movie so can't compare the two, but I definitely am interested in seeing it now.
If you have seen this movie, but haven't read the book - you really should.  The book is one that is hard to put down as opposed to the movie which easily put me to sleep.  Book is so much better - the pain of the mother(and the rest of the family) is felt much deeper when reading the book.
It is no wonder this one has stirred so many crackpot theories.  DwD is fun to play investigator with.  Do not pay mind to readers impatient over the Meereen arc.  I think GRRM is showing us the differences within his world, so those people are simply having difficulty grasping the idea of difference in culture and therefore a change of pace within the story.  This is the book in the series meant particularly for close reading.  You won't be surprised if you've felt the urge to take notes by the end of this one.  ADwD feels like a direct counterpart to ASoS.
i find his books difficult to read & require a 2nd reading...the tv series has made it so much easier to understand...but, i'll always give the books a try
Good stuff.  My only complaint is you don't get a lot of closure.  Bring on the next book.
Long read, but held my interest. I would recommend. I was not quite sure why the pure hatred from her.
It is a good story, well written but very long.
A good read, if a bit u realistic.
While the storyline was somewhat predictable I couldn't help but get caught up in the plot and the characters.  But the biggest attraction for me was the similiarity with my book, "The Other Part Of Me."
The Deep End of the Ocean is a book about a family of five and at the beginning of the story the youngest boy, Ben, gets lost.  I like how the book was laid out.  The author did a wonderful job expressing emotions of the mother and the oldest brother but she lacked detail on the sister and father.  Through most of the book, you get every little detail about the mother and the son, but at the end, you don't know what happned to the family, it just ends.  I didn't like that very much.  The book was ten times better than the movie.  I would read the book over and over if I had a choice of reading the book or watching the movie.  I give the book four stars because of the lack of detail in the daughter and father, but everything else was wonderful.  I could not put it down when I started reading it.  I felt the emotions of all the characters, I wanted to cry when the mother did and I got frustrated with her when the father was mad at her for not being a good mother.  Right now, it is my favorite book.
Very good... But never could figure out Emma's beef with Adam
Excellent character development even minor ones. Really transports a reader into experiencing each person time and place.
I have the book in print. I enjoyed the story.
I did like the book, but the author is a little too wordy for...describing everything, too much detail.  Some people like that. I don't so I probably won't read her again.
GRR Martin has an excellent series. The characters that we follow have complex schemes and plans that we know about and adds tension to the overall story. Other characters seem like wild cards wih their own plans as well. The book contained several character triumphs as well as tragedies. It does leave me wanting more. As a fan of the television series as well i am anticipating how major events will play out. Looking forward to the next book!
Would have liked for this to be the conclusion of the series.
Love this series!!
This is an entertaining book, one that I did not put down easily. Mitchard is a great writer, and does a good job of portraying human emotion. The ending was an original twist to a common theme. The ending was not incredibly satisfying, however, because I always like the happy ending. Regardless, it is a fast paced, well written story.
Excellent story.
George R.R. Martin's work grabbed a hold of me from the first chapter of A Game of Thrones and has yet to let go...his characters all have their own perspectives, agendas and vices that makes them totally believable and even justified at their most wicked. It seems as if there is very little that is black and white heroes rise and fall and even the evil have redeeming qualities.  My favorite series in a long time!  Now to wait for the next book...a long winter indeed!
The first book I've read after watching the tv show and I enjoyed it.  I would recommend it to a friend.
Lots of good developments including a few big "shockers," but I can't wait for some actual conclusions. There are so many characters now that it requires a long book to cover them all but it doesn't seem like a whole lot of progress in the story line takes place. Looking forward to wrapping it all up.
I got this because it was on Oprah's book list and I loved it. I think she is a great author. I thought it was such a sad story but it was so believable. As a mother with a small child it really scares you. I really liked it. I highly recommend it.
Mitchard turns every mother's nightmare into a gripping tale that runs the gammett of emotions.  I could not put the book down, I was waiting to see what range of feelings the author would take me through next.  Don't take  the shortcut and watch the movie, it didn't do the original novel justice.  Pick up The Deep End of the Ocean ASAP, you won't be sorry.
A good read!
A very good read..
Overall continues the story with lots of twists and turns!  It is hard to keep everything strait but I can't wait for the next book.
Not the best, but a good setup for what's to come.  Definitely worth the read, and is a far cry from where we first find the characters in this series.
This book broke my heart and I'm not even a mother yet.  I can't imagine what it would be like if I were.  The most horrifying thing happens.  A child is kidnapped right from under your nose.  What could be more scary?  I can't think of a thing.  This book successfully reveals those emotions.  However, I do have a major problem with it.  I felt very little sympathy  for main character Beth.  She was so cold and had no clue in regards to  what her family needed.  She was so selfish and ended up letting her whole  family down.  Older son Vincent was left to care for himself and baby  sister Carrie.  That poor child not only lost his brother but, he lost his  mother too.  The real story is Vincent and how he deals with the losses in  his life. "Deep End of the Ocean" has it's redeeming  qualities and is a good read.  The sympathy is just focused on a different  character.  At least for me.
I found this book enthralling,  unable to put it down.  I find that alot of people dislike the Beth character.  I found her very real, honest, and completely true to life.  I have a 3 year old, and two other children.  Personally how else would one react.  The book was heart warming and  emotionally draining at times, but also joyful and wistful.  If you read  only  a few books a year I would truly recommend this be one of them.  Your  heart and mind will thank you, and you will read it more than once.  enjoy....but have your kleenex ready.......
Great family saga, hated the story to end nor could I put the book down, was hard to stop reading to do house work!
Ok, so this book is solid, it's just feels like after you're finished nothing really happened. I mean obviously a lot happens in this book, but it doesn't seem to have a real impact on the overall story, at least most of the things that happen. There's a lot of build up for this cool moments for some of the characters where you're like "OMG it's finally going to happen! OMG is happening!!!!! No, not really", it's somewhat frustrating. I rate it this high because it's incredibly well written, characters are so well created. Hopefully George cuts the crap for the next book and gets to the important stuff.
Love the story, my only complaint is the print is too small. I read it on kindle.
A little disjointed. To many characters - Ser this and Ser that... who can keep count? Did not like the way this and the previous book are written on (about) the same time line. However, it's a great story.
Seemed historically accurate so enjoy visiting that era
I have to admit this book was hard to put down.  The first half of the book dragged a bit because it was so loaded down with depression.  (Believe  me this mother had a good reason to be depressed.) Many people I've talked  to said they couldn't get in to it.  If you can get through the first half  of the book, you'll be carrying it with you everywhere until it's finished.
Amazing book
This is a beautifully written book and well-edited.  Bradford is an excellent storyteller and keeps the reader engaged from beginning to end.  Emma is portrayed as a woman with such  strength that she can overcome anything.  It seems impossible that one person could have so many tragedies in her life.  The storyline might have been a little predictable in spots but it is still a great read.
I really enjoyed this book. It takes you on a journey of Emma's life from the end to the start and back to the end again. She was quite a woman!!
a very inspiring. book. sometimes a little wordy with repition of thought.
Some chapters drag on and on about different characters and things, but it picks up midway. Too many cliffhangers .. I need the next one ASAP!
This book had many turns and twists. It was not always as things turned out as I might have inspected. I would have given it a 5 star if it had cut the length shorter by 20 percent.
They're well-developed and real. The author has a good ear for their dialogue (e.g., right after Ben goes missing, Vincent asks Beth a question, she ignores him, and so he tugs at her sleeve and says, "Mom, I asked you a thing.")  And etc.  Like many other readers, I couldn't stand Beth!  It disgusted me that she became such a waste product that she could not (or WOULD not) mother her remaining two children.  And that little obsession with Nick and the unrequited lust?  Grow up and get over it already!  Despite that, I liked the story.  I liked seeing what the cbildren became in spite of their mother(s).  Vincent and Candy were my favorite characters, and Sam's memory of the cedar chest and the ensuing discussion with Vincent was the best part of the book, to me.  I think it's obvious the writer has 5 children, she has a very good sense of how they behave, not just with adults, but with each other.
This book is better than the previous one and we find out more about our favourite characters from the seven kingdoms... The pace is better than the previous book though I did miss some of the main characters - Jamie Lannister, Margery, Bran, Sansa, Sam. I guess GRRM has so much to write that he can only write about some characters in one book and some in the next, which is ok. This book ends in cliffhangers and I can't wait for the next instalment to be released!
I found this book a good read but not too realistic.  A 'lost' son only two blocks away, right!  A father who can do no wrong and really doesn't even seem to mourn his loss.  A mother all consummed for 9 long years only to give her son back.  The book had an interesting plot even though Beth was quite unlikeable.  Vincent was the only realistic character in the book.  Even Ben with his flip-flops was not too likeable.  I would recommend this book only to see how a situation like this can destroy a family's fabric
I liked the book.  But the problem is I think the author didn't accomplished what she wanted to do.  She obviously wanted to use a "best-seller" theme, but write the book in a literary fashion.  She got confused.  This is forgivable because she is a first time novelist.  My advice for her would be: If you want to use various characters to show the emotions of the family during Ben's dissappearance, use all the members of the family.  Otherwise, you would have to come up with melodramatic scenes, as you did.
Great read right till the end.
the second or last third of the book had the bulk of content and development.  Felt that the first part of the book dragged with unnecessary setup of characters, many of which we are already familiar with.  Love the charachters and content of the book, but still had a very strong feeling of an unfinished chapter as the book closed.
Still love the world the story lives in. This book unfortunately gets more into the drudgery of world building. Almost seems like he is including building elements that normally would function as a scaffolding removed when the book is placed through final edits. Book really didn't need to be long as it was for what transpired, especially when compared to previous books. Actually found myself becoming bored at parts, and almost seems like the writer is too, or at least he is not being given enough time for the story to grow in his mind before he puts it down, due to the pressure put on him since the TV series has become such a phenomenon. Still worth reading for lovers of the series, all said and done.
Although I agree with most that the book was riveting, there were two major disappointments.  First, the main character's (Beth's) paralysis in the face of her son's kidnapping was overwhelming and unrealistic.  Second, with several major plot twists, I expected a major payoff with the ending.  It was neat, but not satisfying.
As a parent, I knew that this book would be unsettling.  Most parents, if asked to give up their lives for their youngsters, would do so.  Being in limbo for years as your abducted son is being searched for would be worse than death! I appreciated the realism of no one person being the *bad guy* or *good guy*.  Everyone is trying to cope the best they can through the trauma.  I appreciated the author looking from the viewpoint of family members as they coped, and the slow revealing of why each member of the family felt he/she was guilty for the abduction. It was a feeling book.  Several times I looked away from the printed page as tears blurred my vision.  While it may not be the traditional *happy ending*, I felt that, at least, there was the possibility.
It was entertaining and an easy read.
Couldn't wait to get to the next one in the series!
really a 4.5
predictable but good
Better than the 4th!
I found the book to be overly detailed at times when the story line needed to move on. Payment by the word I suppose--but ti took away from the suspense and vitality of the events. and now the reader is in total suspense awaiting the next book
As I read this book, and jump between characters, one part of me just wants to find out what happens to them already. The other part loves the suspense and the way characters lives are built up and exposed. Read this, it's great....
A wonderful story, couldn't  put it down.
The battle scenes were a little long and drawn out ... otherwise, STILL a great book.
Enjoyable, but a little far fetched for its time.  Women didn't have that much freedom to succeed in business then and probably still don't.
I enjoyed this book as I have enjoyed all the others in the series.  Looking forward to the next book.
a great story. a good read for game of thrones fans. get a peek into the 5th season
I was hoping for more in this book.  It had some juicy bits and pieces but really seems like a set up for the next book  I did enjoy reading it and will get the next one when it gets finished.
Got this for my dad. He says he likes it, and that it's quite entertaining.
Amazing as expected!
Great series
Always kept me on my toes. Liked the set up and good next step in this series. Can't wait for book 6.
I really enjoyed this book.  I was disappointed in not learning more of Emma's life after early successes.  There was a lot about her early life as a servant and a lot about her being multi millionaire and not much in between.  It seemed to me that she accepted an extravagant lifestyle way to easily.  Especially from such humble beginnings. I do like the author's way of writing and intend on reading the next book in the trilogy.
Enjoyed reading
This was a very interesting book.  It started when Emma was quite young and ended when she was 76 with all her adventures through that time span which covered her marriages, children, grandchildren and all their trials and tribulations throughout.
great read
Starts out slow but when the storylines pick up, oh boy!  Please, George R.R. Martin, publish the next installment in this series.
Entertaining, very descriptive at times. Last 25% was the best.
Worth the read
I would have given this book 5 stars but I felt the author was trying to impress the readers with her descriptive words.  Enjoyed the basis of the story though.
Much better than the previous one! But WHY chapter 69!!!!Why! I hope there is another ending to it...!plz
Outstanding, can't wait for the next volume.
Great descriptive writing.  Sometimes too descriptive.  Drags on a bit in chapters where new characters are introduced.  Enjoyed this sequel overall.
Very good
Finally a book with vocabulary more advanced than mine. Story was great with many twist and turns that I couldn't always guess what was going to happen next. I also really loved the ending. The last page put a satisfied smile on my face.
Amazingly good... but I hate the idea to have to wait years to know what happens next!!!
It was as compelling as the previous books in the series, but I felt that too many new characters appeared, while previous ones were a 'no show' which was a little frustrating. I am also somewhat peeved at one of my favourite characters being killed off - but George is good at that!
I purchased the whole book and was then offered a - second half and thinking this was more, purchased this as well, only to have to return for a refund. Too confusing. This (whole) book is compelling as the rest but becoming too confusing with yet more characters and no follow up on some long running favourites. Also, the author has a habit of killing off my favourite characters which is becoming annoying, as I see no need to have to create more as replacements, especially so far into the series. Could have been better.
No matter how long it is it is never enough. Always more questions then answers! How can you stop there?! Some parts boring and sluggish with new characters and perspectives but better by the end.
Mr. Martin needs to begin to wrap up his series. He's got characters literally swinging in the breeze....
I give it a 4 only because I read in short spans of time. Characters of a large family are difficult to keep track of. The story was wonderful. Strong characters in hard times.
Anything by Bradford is interesting for me.
Good, but long!
This is where I finally started the Harte Family Saga - even though it was written years ago it is still a wonderful read.  I truly enjoyed it and couldn't put these books down - had to quit reading them for awhile to get something else done at home!!!
Exciting but too long
As always Agatha Christie keeps you guessing in these early stories with M.Poirot solving the mystery. Having read almost all of her mysteries, it's always a pleasure to step her world.
I'd read a couple of Poirot books years ago, and finally decided to read them straight through.  I enjoy classic amateur detective stories, and this was one of the finest.  Poirot and his sidekick Hastings make a terrific read alike for Holmes and Watson.  I can't help but wonder what the four would have thought of each other.
There was an error with the order and the company refused to correct it up front- forcing me to have to deal with returns and credits
Poirot's Early Cases is a series of short stories by the celebrated writer which does not fail to live up to her standards. She can always leave the reader guessing until the very last moment. They have all been successfully made into TV episodes feturing the superb David Suchet as Poirot.
It was a good read.  A collection of Hercule Poirot short stories that made for easy reading.  Several stories had been presented on the Poirot television series and it was interesting to see what the author said.
Easy read that covers history, poverty to wealth and how to succeed against the odds.  It shows what hard work and intelligence can accomplish
Very interesting and well written book. I was completely taken in by the main character's life and how she got to the top. Looking forward to reading more of her books.
Seems like there is a ton of lore and history in this realm that we'll never find out.  Very much like the writing style and how the story flows.
Left to much suspense until the 6th novel but really a lot of twist I didn't see coming can't wait for the next one
I bought this as a gift, so I can't review the product. The seller was great, no issues.
Sometimes the story seems to go off on a tangent but otherwise another solid book in the series full of twists and turns.
At first it looks like nothing important will happen in this book... but we are very wrong! Our favorite characters return, and they return with a bang! The ending is just... well, you will have to read it to find out! ;)  I can't wait til Winds of Winter get published. I hope (crossing my fingers) we don't have to wait 11 years like in Dance of Dragons!
Enjoyed the continuing saga.  However,  I was left with a lot of empty endings leading to another book in the future..
Awesome but harder to follow then the others in his series due to separating the characters.
I liked that a woman could be so strong & so vulnerable at the same time. This spanned several decades.  Each decade showed how a woman was able to keep things moving.  For herself & her community.
Arrived as expected
Reread book 5 to refresh my memory for the upcoming HBO season. Still a bit peeved book 6 is still being written. Love you George, hurry the hell up!
Great story line fun read
A tad too much details lends to labored reading at times. Excellent plot, but who cares what they ate in detail
Goodstory!  Very long book but a fun read; only thing is there, at times, too much description which normally I like but all in all worth reading if you like rags to riches stories.
I took this book on a trip to Florida and it was perfect for that. I also watched the film adaptation of Emma's story made in 1984 and starring Jenny Seagrove. Book and film are both a little old fashioned, but the story is a satisfying one.
rereading this, because I liked it so much the first time. Very engrossing though perhaps not a "great" book.  I've read the rest of this author's works and though generally engrossing, you couldn't call them "great" literature. Love reading the descritions though
Not sure I like where he's taking all the characters but, as always, well written.
Present, well received
It was a great book, it arrived in fairly good time, and it was in pretty good condition except the bottom corners were bent inward a little bit so it wasn't perfect, unfortunately, but it wasn't a big deal to me.
Very enjoyable and long first book of a saga! Am looking forward to the rest of them. Kept me riveted to the story of Emma Harte and to the wonderful and intricate plot.
Vastly superior to Book number 4 if only because it follows more interesting and likable characters, but still maddeningly slow paced time and time again. All in all my favorite of the series thus far.
A great read. The author describes emotions and events well but sometimes the descriptions are crude and not those of a mature writer. Though I believe this was her first novel. I'm looking forward to reading her last one, for comparison of writing style.
A Dance with Dragons at least focused on the characters that most people care about.  It was still too slow, and the plight of some characters was quite pathetic, but George R.R. Martin still managed a few surprises.
With all the reviews, I was pretty sure this book would be horrible. Yet Tyrion is still Tyrion, that clever Imp. And Dany...A little trouble there. I wish we had more time with her an  her dragons. Yet overall still a good book.
Book 4 was awful, but thankfully "A Dance with Dragons made up for it... Mostly. With most of the fan-favourites returning for book 5 there was bound to be some great action, and book 5 delivered.
I really enjoyed this book, the way it was written made the characters come to life as you are reading the book. Can't wait to eard the other books that follow
The last two have felt like bridging novels, but are still good.  I like the sense of time and activity.  I just don't know how he's going to pull in all of his threads.  What's going on with Sam?
Much better than 4, but the decline from 1-3 is real
Bradford's "Woman of Substance" is in it's 33rd printing, and if that doesn't implore you to pickup the book, then the first page will undoubtedly. The novel is a classic rags to riches tale that follows a young Yorkshire girl through the 20th century as she builds a great business empire. Bradford's vocabulary is detailed and expressive, and this sweeping saga will draw you in quickly. History, romance, intrigue, family double-dealing... it's got it all. This is the first book in a very popular series.
Anxiously awaiting the next book!
In usual fashion the book starts slow then amps it's pace bringing thrill and of course quick deaths. You already know what to expect from other books. While I myself still hold the 3rd book in the series to be the best, this one is still worthwhile and only makes the wait for the next one even harder.
great author
Great for a quick tape of the best Bradford book.  Note that it's "British" english.
Holy crap this book was amazing one of the best in the series. Definitely recommend this for everyone in fantasy
I liked the entire series. Waiting follow-ups
A Woman of Substance is a book that I have wanted to read for many years but held off mainly because of the number of pages. With the help of a few reading friends, I was finally able to conquer this saga and am now happy that I did.  AWOS tell the story of Emma Harte. A young girl who came from poverty only to become one of the most powerful and richest woman in the world.  When Emma was just a child she worked for the Fairleys as a servant. The masters son, Edwin, and her became very close friends and eventually started a relationship that only led to trouble. Scorned and let down by Edwin, Emma ran off to find her fortune and vowed revenge of the Fairleys.  As we go through the years with Emma, we experience her love and loss but one thing always stayed true, her secret to life.  "You must endure."  Find yourself a nice comfortable place to read this great book and enjoy your time with Emma. You certainly will not regret it, or forget her.
A thrilling book from cover to cover. New names along with old ones. New plots and a new breath holding moment at every chapters end will leave you, unfortunately, hanging until book 6.  Hurry up GRRM you are a months past the release date.
In Barbara Taylor Bradford's novel, "A Woman of Substance", the theme is that people must work hard for what they want in life is clearly shown.  Emma Harte, a very poor little girl goes through many hard times  before she ends up being one of the richest and strongest women to live.  Bradford develops this moving story through the use of setting, conflict,  and characterization to create the powerful theme.  " A Woman of  Substances" portrays how hard it's for the poor people to have a  mellow life. Barbara Taylor B. describes this big problem in life with Emma  Harte the main character of the novel. Bradford uses conflict throughout  the story to show how capable Harte was of solving all of these  difficulties. Through Emma, Bradford let's people know that no matter what  the situation is, you can't give up.
Dammit George! I love this series. If anything, it keeps getting better. Can't wait for the next one, and hope it won't be long..!
A fantastic read, so much going on. Never a dull moment with all the plots and scheming. Endless amounts of character's. Battles all over the place. Slavery, torture, greed, honor, nobility, pride and the occasional act of kindness. There is so much going on in this book that i'm going to have to read it again with a map and a pen at my side.
I simply enjoyed this book much more than books 3 and 4.  The chapters were generally much more interesting and we start to really get into the meat of the series (which we have been waiting for, for what seems like 3 books.  I only gave it 4 stars because I am not a fan of cliff-hangers and that's all this book ends with.  I don't always mind cliff-hangers so much but there is simply not enough conclusion for me (ESPECIALLY with the next book so far away).  The book just feels like the first half of something great.  If this doesn't bother you, you will not be disappointed.  The character development starts to kick into overdrive for the series and we have new emotions to the series like vindication, pity and restlessness.  There is the introduction of new characters to hate but not as many to love.  Just a side though that applies to this book as well as the entire series.  I am nervous to feel that  80% of my questions that this book leaves me with will never be concretely and properly answered.
This is another complex but very entertaining read.  It was good to see some of my favorite characters back, especially Tyrion.  I really needed to be in the mood to read this, but when I was I really enjoyed it.  If you've enjoyed the rest of the series, I definitely recommend it, even if you were slightly offput by book 4 due to some of the favorite characters not being included.  They come back this time round, and it ended with a bit of a 'wow', so will definitely continue to book 6 when it's eventually released!
after being severely disappointed with book 4, I was happy to find the action and all my favorite characters back in book 5!
Not my favorite book in this series but still a good one and a very welcome one as I sit here shriveling up waiting for this series to finish.
I loved this book, although not as much action, more character and plot development, can't wait to read the next one!
Martin has split the story, focusing on about half of the characters (the ones we didn't read about in Book 4).  It seems the pace of the action has moderated with Jon and Daenerys now occupied by the day to day obligations of leaders.  Still a good read.
It was good.  At times it seems like Martin is thinking he's paid by the word.
Just praying that george rr martin doesnt die soon, because i am dying of suspense here! Great book, lots of surprises
Although I love this series, I thought this one was a bit draggy toward the end. It took me the longest the finish and was both underwhelming and exhilarating at the end, if that makes any since. So many questions I can't wait to have answered in the following book. Is it too much too want the dear author to release 2 books at once so I can binge read like I watch Netflix?
Another book is necessary for the series to come together and the ending to make sense. The characters we have come to enjoy and look forward to deserve that much.
Good transaction
Let's face it. There is no better place to shop than the Markets of Provence. The book, Markets of Provence, places you there. Imagine nibbling on the cheeses, munching on crusty breads, drinking great wines, and the wonderful scent of garrigue and lavender. The book has great recipes, phrases for use in the markets, a conversion chart, and a list of other markets in Provence. Bon appetit!
More fun than the fourth book, but that isn't saying much.  The plot thickens in this book, and it is quite fun after it gets going.  However, being R.R. Martin means you take a bit to weave character plots.
bought for my son He enjoyed it
Another fist clenching book in a series of twist and turns. No one is safe from their untimely demise and apparent doomed destiny.
I'm a huge fan of Reginald Hill's Pascoe and Dalziel stories, but this collection of P&D short stories left me kind of scratching my head about what the author had got up to.  There are two stories--in this collection of four--that are classic Pascoe and Dalziel.  In "Pascoe's Ghost" you get a zig-zag murder mystery with an homage by author Hill to Edgar Allan Poe.  "Dalziel's Ghost" is a net full of red herrings that showcases the big man's mental agility and deviousness and his fondness for playing with partner Pascoe's mind.  The book's first story, "The Last National Service Man," is a comic masterpiece, and chronolgically, is early in the P&D partnership.  "One Small Step," the collection's closing story, projects the pair into the distant future.  Pascoe has become a major police authority in the European Federal Police and Dalziel is working as a retired consultant.  The big surprise here is that they are called to a crime scene on the surface of the moon.  Picture the rhino-sized Dalziel in a space suit!  There is some over-the-top humor laced into this story--Dalziel brings new meaning to the "mile-high club."  But on the whole, I thought the story had a little too much fantasy and zig-zag to be credible.  There's a lot of fun in this collection and it serves as a good intro to Pascoe and Dalziel for those who haven't given them an earlier try.
This collection of short stories is a good introduction to the delightful  team of Pascoe and Dalziel.  Some of the British (or Yorkshire) slang was  beyond me, but it added a lot of color and I was able to get around it  easily enough and follow the story without difficulty.  This is a good  intellectual exercise disguised as entertainment.
True to the first, however not the final installment.  Will Martin ever finish it?
Good
received as described and was well wrapped
A little bit of a slow read compared to the first few books. Taking me forever to read it, whereas I couldn't put down the first three books.
It is a very good book, however the story is not so well resolved as the first three books. Too many characters and still too many loose points. I think Daenarys is staying too much time in Meereen.
It gets a little long of tooth in some areas. However, it is still very entertaining and worth your time if you are considering reading it.
OK, it's hard for me to explain why the Game of Thrones books appeal to me. There is so much violence and injustice that the books are nauseating sometimes. But the characters are so engaging that I feel very attached to them. I just can't quit. I have blasted through all of them and now must await the next in the series. I went on a frantic search for Winds of Winder but couldn't find it and didn't know that it hadn't been released yet. What am I supposed to read in the mean time? There is nothing to compare. The series is epic. The author is not afraid to kill off one of the central figures which is stunning. We can't take for granted that the people we are following will survive until the next book. That leaves me on edge, which I guess is a good thing.
A good read but seems like he is getting a little bored with the whole thing. Still, I will read the next one.
While it a decent read, honestly with the exception of the Imp, it features the characters that I am the least interested in, so it seemed to get bogged down at time.  Although it certainly does set you up for the next one.
Very interesting book. Cannot wait for the next. George r.r. Martin sets up the next book very nicely. Can't wait for the other characters to return.
Betrayal. Murder most foul. This book seemed like the calm before the storm. Like catching your breath while finding out what had been happening with old friends. And then something happened that was so heinous, so awful that I wanted to fling my book against the wall. Say it isn't so, Joe! I won't spoil this by telling what happens; suffice it to say that the ending was bitter, and tears will be shed.
I gave it a four start rating simply because I am ready for a conclusion.  I do enjoy reading this series but it is starting to feel like a lifelong sentence - depending on whether I die first or George Martin does.
Took 972 of the about 1200 pages to get good. And then it ended. I cannot wait for the next book, but this one was a chore. A necessary chore, albeit, to set up what comes next, but holy smokes this one was rough. Good luck HBO.
Series is getting boring.  Still better than the HBO show though.
great series
Well written, interesting plot, good read!
A good read once I started I didn't want to put this book down
One of the series of twelve and good read.
Good book.this should be read simultaneously with(crows) !
It's good.  Well written.  But it's a long way to go for not much story movement.  This combined with the fourth book plus a lot of editing would've made the perfect book.
This book has its ups and downs and is over a thousand pages long but I stuck it out because I want to see how this series turns out.
Great book cannot wait until the next one in the series. Leaf up in the air with the character development
Enjoyable yarn albeit somewhat predictable ending.
enjoyed very much, also like idea of the number "05" to indicate order to read. Really helps a lot. Wish it was done on each group as I will read them.
Easy read; lots of drama and action.
Good compelling plot with obvious research.  A bit wordy which is why I chose 4 instead\\d of 5. Clancy is always dependable for a very good read.
Once again you don't quite know how it will end, but you are led through the different scenarios in an electric manner. The time factors and going back and forth between locales makes it hard to put the book down. I find myself looking forward to the next chapter/timeline.
i am a long time dragon fan.  characters are interesting, love em or hate em, sometimes both. i do not have access to the television version of these books so my only interpretation has been the books. i really enjoyed this series
Missed the dragons in Book 4.  Glad they are back!
I love Game of Thrones and the book is excellent
Who will win the game?  Seems like those most likely have been slaughtered.  We will see when the story commences.
The pace of this books is pretty slow, but the characters are still very engaging and we'll portrayed. Let's just hope it doesn't take another 5 years for the next book.
Personally, I found this book to be very entertaining. The Op= Center  intelligence apparatus finds that Spain is about to begin experiencing  internal problems. A potential revolution is just about around the corner.  A Spanish General and his loyal troops are poised to take over the  government of Spain. The general has  a good following among the army units  of the Spanish Army. The Striker unit is called upon to save Spain from an  armed insurrection. The General and his troops are finally overcome and  defeated by the Striker unit. The General is killed and his troops are  defeated. The Striker unit once again saves the day. I thought that Tom  Clancy used imagination is using Spain as a setting. The reading was  exciting and came closed to being action packed. This was not a bad book. I  was well satisfied.
This book's awesome, As we have come to expect from Clancy. It showcases the perturbed world in which we live in now. The only reason, i have given 4 stars for this book is because the real action is at the end(When the  STRIKER team take on the mission to eliminate General Amadori) but it is  well worth the wait.
I loved this book! It had all the elements for which I read the Op-Center  books--interesting characters, great action scenes, mystery and easy to  read. I enjoyed seeing more of Hood's personal life as well as another  character's past. The introduction of a new character was exciting and very  well written. I loved the action scenes, the way Op-Center manages  everything and how they receive their information. It was exciting and  interesting all the way through! One of the best Op-Center books written!
A good read. Story getting a bit too big and some chapters seem like boring filling. Did not like the ending...and of course cannot wait for the next installment.
Part of a good series.
This book was very good. The only problem I had was that it was not longer.
Continuing the story from some of the characters left behind in ASOS, ADWD starts to set the scene for the coming books very well and provides additional development of sideplots that will eventually come together.  I read somewhere that the first four books of this series were like making moves on a chessboard, setting up the strategies and future implications whereas this book is like taking those chess pieces and transferring them to a chinese checkers board. The analogy  worked for me because the first four books left me thinking I knew where the story was going, only to have the fifth book completely rearrange my expectations and theories of what was to come.
Enjoyed the book however even more unanswered questions. How long before the next book comes out?  Leaves you wondering about current and future the alliances, and how the author will be reintroducing characters "long" forgotten.
Slow at start and with some character interaction but finishes strong. Looking forward to book 6.
Good read but more characters you like die
This book was written a bit differently than the others and I miss a few characters that I am pretty sure are still alive but haven't heard from in 2 books.  I read this on a kindle which is great because when I forget who a character is....I mean really George....I can touch the screen on the name and it will give me a quick synopsis.  Looking forward to the next one. Glad I get a break and can read some shorter books now, but worried I will forget all of the characters before George finishes the next one :)
Martin returns to form in Book 5 of the series.  Long but thoroughly enjoyable from start to finish. As usual, the chapters on Tyrion and Arya were The highlights, but Martin's depiction of the long-awaited arrival of winter in several of the chapters is also fabulous.
I picked up this book series rather late. The first three books were better than excellent!  This book moved as slow as molasses. Don't get me wrong, at this point I'm a huge fan.  But for the love of Stark, can't we advance the story along, just a tad faster? Buy it, read it, but be prepared for a soap operaish, meandering, slow advancement of this otherwise,  great story.
Only started reading this book because I love the Games of Thrones series. I like the idea of knowing what is going to happen next. This book has big words in it, and I have been known to google them, to see what they mean, but apart from that, it's a great read.
Enjoy this saga!
