Very nice
I love a good mystery and enjoy attempting to solve the crime before the characters in the book. This story had me enthralled. I was not, at all, able to figure out the solution. Now that I know how it was done, I need to read this again and try to follow how he/she (no spoilers!) pulled the whole thing off! An excellent book and deserving of its standing as a classic!
A
a classic dr seuss.  definitely one of the "must haves" for a child learning to read on his own.  great addition to any library
I remember my dad reading me Dr. Seuss books when I was a kid. Here's hoping that my kids find as much enjoyment with these as I did.
no tears or visual blemishes or missing pages. The book brings just as many smiles as I recall! Thanks Much!
Best children's book ever...fun for parents too!  Not only my kids favorite...but their kid's favorite now too!  Always a pleasure to visit this Dr.
This is a terrific book, was in excellent condition just as the seller promised. My son LOVES this book, he really pays attention to it. You will be tongue tied by the end, but it is so worth it. I definitely recommend this seller and their products.
My boys loved this book when they were growing up and now my grandsons love it. Grandma has learned to slow down when reading it so her tongue does not get as tangled as it used to. :)
Just love Agatha Christie but never read this particular story before.  Really enjoyed it.  If you've never read it, it's an absolute must!
Very clever story; loved it!  It is obviously a bit old and the English is not current, but the story still works well and it is a page turner by about one third of the way through.
Great book for young adults! Reminds me of the game Clue
Excellent condition, great price.
We bought the book for our youngest son. Dr Suess books are great for beginning readers. We bought several others as well.
I bought this for my 2nd grader who is a proficient reader, because the rhymes and tangled sentences are great for reading accuracy, and because I always thought it was fun when I was a kid. Used is a great option for young kids. It's still in good shape, but doesn't need as much protection as the new books I buy them.
My children and I enjoy hours together reading these books.  The teach so many lessons on so many different levels!
Dr. Suess really takes the reader for a tounge-twisting, hilarious ride with Fox in Socks. My four-year-old son loves Dr, Suess. We have our very own collection of his books that we ordered book-by-book off of Amazon. All the Dr. Suess books we have found, including Fox in Socks, on Amazon have been purchased at bargain prices. This is a classic story and I got it for a steal from the seller. The book arrived within a week of placing the order and it's in excellent condition. Fox is Socks is a funny book that will make your children and your inner-child smile from ear to ear.
We opened this gift this morning for Christmas and took turns trying to read thru the tounge twisters.  We had a contest to see who could read the most pages without making a mistake! Dr. Seuss is always fun!
This is one of my all time favorite books to read to my children.  I like reading slowly to them or with them to really feel how the words roll around in your mouth.  The various sound combinations are good for helping children annunciate.  They you can challenge yourself to see how fast you can read it without making mistakes.  For some reason whenever I read this a few times, I cant help but get faster and faster the more times I read it.
Using this book to help with a small speech impediment.  Nightly reading of small sections work.  Over time the speech will improve.
I love this and all the Seuss board books.  They're sturdy enough for my daughter to "read" by herself and short enough that I have a shot at actually getting through the story before she rips it from my hands.
I never read this one as a kid but my husband loved it, I have to say it is fun to try and read through this story as fast as possible my daughter thinks it's so funny!
I have the original Fox in Socks book but when my 6 month old became interested in helping turnt he pages and chewing on the book, I decided to get the board book.  It is shorter than the original but still very good.  The typical sing-song rymes of Dr. Suess is still present and it is a very fun tongue twister book.  My son loves to hear all the funny words and will laugh when his dad or I get tongue tied on the poem.  We all have a lot of fun with this book and it is great for language development.
Dr. Seuss, no complaints here. We got this one because it was a board book and perfect for our one-year old to not destroy like he has with other books that get left around. Brings back memories of my own childhood reading this to him :)
I ordered the book brand new and it was! You could tell that it hadn't even been opened before. Two thumbs up!
We have loved this book since our daughter first read it (without us reading it to her first) when she was barely 4.  You can never go wrong with Seuss, anyway.
This book is a classic! It was my favorite Dr. Seuss book when I was a little girl. I remember making my mom read it to us and laughing so hard when she couldn't get through the tongue twisters. She laughed so hard she cried. I would recommend it to anyone who wants to read and spend time with their kids and who loves to laugh with them!
I buy this book for every kid I know. My kids used to want me to read it over and over. They wanted me to read it faster every time. It's quite a challenge. They are both grown now and still quote from it to this day. It is so fun to read and laugh together at the mistakes you make with this tongue twister.
My husband & I were reading this to our baby and she lost interest because she's only 10 months old but we kept going and were laughing so hard, we had to read it again and dared each other to go faster...this book is very entertaining!  We love Dr. Seuss books and this one is our favorite.
I purchased this book to make learning sounds fun for my daughter.  She has been receiving special services for speech articulation issues for 2 years and is 5 years old now.  The game that Mr. Fox makes at Knox expense is hysterical to her.  The fact that Mr. Knox puts Mr. Fox in his place at the end shows her what she can achieve even after many frustrations.  She practices reading the story out loud over and over.  This started right after I read the book to her the first time without me telling her to :)
This is a wonderful book for young children learning tounge-twisters.  And, rest assured, adults who grew up with Dr. Seuss certainly get a kick out it, too.
Fun book to read! The rhymes are incredible and very tongue twisty. I enjoy reading it to my son, which is a good thing, because he asks for me to read it all the time.
I am going to be a new grandmother soon and I wanted to get my new 'little person' the books that my children enjoyed the most to keep the legacy moving forward. A few years ago we lost my precious developmentally delayed daughter. This was one of her favorites. This is our way of keeping her memory alive in the generations to come. Thank you for making it so easy to find. The service provided was exemplary.
If you've never read this book, read it out loud to your kids, and if you can get through it, you were reading too slow... Too much fun to read!
I think it was a great Idea to have the CD with the book.  I had made a Dr Seuss for a friend who just had a baby and I purchased the book and cd so the older brother who is 4 could read the book to his little brother.
This book is wonderful for small children.  It encourages them to read which helps in everything.
Good book to add to my 2 & 1/2 year old's collection. It was in good condition too!
This is a super fun book and instantly became my son's favorite.  He is almost 4.  I really like reading it because unlike most children's books, it's interesting to me (mostly because it's tricky to not get my tongue tied).  It's a lot of fun.
I absolutely love this book! One of my favorite Dr. Seuss books, I've read this to my daughter for years and still never get tired of it. I love the tongue twisters and the funny pictures (no pun intended), and it's always a game to see how fast I can read it. I've actually memorized a few pages by heart. I hope my daughter will still want me to read this to her even after she's old enough to read on her own.  I would recommend my second favorite Dr. Seuss book: Oh Say Can You Say.  Another classic book that will keep your tongue in knots!
Every time I read this book to my young son I challenge myself to read it without getting tongue tied. Invariably I fail, what with all those tweedle beetles and pig bands.  This book is truly a joy to read.
You can not ever go wrong with a Dr Seuss book, and this is one of the best.
The note in the front of the book sums it up:  Be careful, this book is dangerous.  If you are looking for a lot of unusual and wacky tongue twisters which are truly hard, you need this book.  It's fun reading with young children and also a fun challenge for Intermediate to Advanced learners of English as a second language.  The artwork is classic Suess, too.
this book is enjoyed by all my children aged 1 to 8, they find the rhyming attractive and love the images
A book designed to twist your tongue into contortions, kids love the wackiness and also seem to enjoy seeing the grown ups mess up. Not for lightweight adult readers.
My son read this book at the barber shop and loved it so much we ordered it for him. It is a great way to teach word recognition and promotes fast reading so they practice, then they enjoy challenging the whole family to read the book. As a homeschool mom I appreciate any book that encourages my boy to read! Love that Dr. Seuss
This was the funniest book I have ever read.  I found it in the Doctors office and was going to check it out for my grandsons to see if I needed to order it.  I sat in the office and laughed out loud, then came home and ordered the book.  My daughter and son in law are also delighted with this book and enjoy reading to the grandchildren.
There's so much silliness and tongue twisting going on in "Fox in Socks" that my 5-year old and 4-year old end up rolling around in their beds because they laugh so hard.  This is one of my sons' favorite bedtime books. Initially, the book provided new vocabulary but, now they have got the book nearly memorized, the main attraction is the tongue-twisting rhymes Mr. Fox delivers.  You can't read "tweetle beetle puddle paddle battle" without any seriousness and that's the point of Dr. Suess books. Check the seriousness at the door and dive into the silliness with your children.  I recommend you add these Dr. Suess books to your kids' bookshelf:  One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish Green Eggs and Ham Hop on Pop The Foot Book The Cat in the Hat
Even though this book doesn't leave a meaningful message like many other Seuss books (Horton Hears a Who, How The Grinch Stole Christmas, Yertle the Turtle, etc), it's still loads of fun to read. I bought this for my son when he was still a baby, and for a couple of years he didn't understand it and wasn't interested. Now that he's 3y.o. and into imaginative play, he loves it when we read the creative tongue-twisters of Fox in Socks, and tries to read along though it's still a bit difficult for him (some of the rhymes are difficult for me too if I read them quick!). Like all Seuss books, the rhymes, characters and silly stories are very creative and an incentive for children and adults to play with the imagination.
My children love this book, it sounds alot like some famous rappers. (Since it rhymes, ha!)
This is a really fun book to read to your preschool / pre-k child.  It's really enjoyable - both for the parent reading it (for the 10th time) and for the child listening to it. My child loves it. I often buy it as a gift for other children.
The very same seuss poetry we read to our children 30 years ago, we are now reading to our grandchildren.  Thank you Amazondotcom for your fantastic bargains!!!!!!!!!!
As a community theater director, I was running out of tongue-twisters for the traditional vocal warmups when I remembered "Fox in Socks." I brought my dogeared copy down to the theater and ever since, it's been part of my standard backstage warmup repertoire. Even the most jaded actors light up in grins when I lead them through the Tweedle Beetle Battle.
You can't go wrong with Dr. Seuss. His non-sensical rhyming inspires word play and imagination in my six year old son as it did for me when I was his age.
This book lets you teach 50 vowel-spellings using 350 vocabulary words.
We love this book, it's an absolute favorite.  We've been reading this one since our child was a baby.  Once you get the tongue twisters down, you can have A LOT of fun reading this book, and your little ones will request this book be read A LOT!  I highly recommend this book for babies, toddlers or early readers, fun for all.
We have been reading this non-stop.  My three year old asks me to "sing the tweetle beetle part" as a bedtime ritual.  It is so cute.
Marguerite at Belle's Books could not have been nicer.  The book came right away and in perfect condition!  Thank you Marguerite!-N. Ross
Fox in Socks is a great model for out of the box creative thinking.  When my math and CS students take themselves and their study too seriously, I recommend a rereading of this for fun.  This year, I will have my kids pass the book around the class and each read a page as an icebreaker.  A true classic in every sense of the word.
My kids can't stop giggling every time we read this book together! Good exercise for your tounges.
A wonderful, silly Seuss, filled with tongue twisters. Great illustrations. And for adults---I teach ESL, and have a relatively advanced class, but the students' pronunciation isn't great. I tried this out to drill vowel sounds and it was a winner! The students are enchanted with the silliness of it, it makes a boring activity--drilling--fun, and several bought the book for their kids. A great find! Published 40 years ago, Seuss never gets old.
Mr. Fox is a sneaky little guy in this giggle a minute book by Dr. Seuss. Starting off to tease his friend we hear, "Knox on fox in socks in box." and proceed from there to some real put a knot in your tongue twister of words.  Yes,lots of outlandish tongue twisters with great illustrations to add to the pleasure of the read. This book is definitely an exercise for young and old, as you twirl your tongue this way and that and chuckle at your own inability to keep up with Mr. Fox.  If you want to read a book that will make you giggle and jiggle and give your tongue a good wiggle, this is the one.  Shirley JOhnson
Do you like rhymes for just dimes?  Funny characters looking odd or a smile while you nod? Get this book its great whether you are a lass or a mate, read it with a sandwich or a hoagie if you are a young spry of an old foagie.
You MUST try reading this book out-loud, REALLY fast! It is almost impossible! I LOVE this book! My mom read it to me when I was a little girl! (Slowly of course) This book is full of wonderful tongue twisters!
Such a funny book, I still enjoy reading it more than 20 years later.  You have to read it out loud, it's funnier that way.  I'm reading it to my son now and he's enjoying it too.
I would recommened this bok to antone who liked to read. This is a great book and the first time I read this book to myself I was in a toung twister the whole time. I also liked how it rymed so much, my fav. was"the fox in socks on box on knox."
This tongue twister of words is great fun.  This was my favorite Dr. Seuss book as a child.  My sister and I read it over and over to see if we could read it all the way through with out messing up.  What a great way to encourage your child to read.
Although Amazon advertises this book for ages 4-8, my wife and I started reading this and other Seuss books to our children from 6 months on.  Always a delight, our kids would laugh at the silliness while acquiring a zest for life at the same time.  We started a great habit of reading two or three Seuss books before bed, and the kids loved them.  Soon, they would memorize many of the phrases, beginning a lifelong passion for reading. Every kid should experience reading Fox in Socks while growing up.  Join the Fox in Socks as he leads Mr. Knox on a zany adventure of learning and silly rhymes.  Combine it with other fun Seuss books and your kids will sit enthralled as you turn the pages.  Highly recommended.
Dr. Seuss's Fox in Socks is easily the most entertaining children's poetry book there is. An absolute must for Seuss fans, young and old! Read it aloud to your kids, preferably as fast as you can - and you'll all giggle 'till your tummies hurt.
This book is real fun for kids to read, its real good and a real tounge twister! a few years ago in 6th grade I remember we had a competition to see who could read aloud the most with out twisting your tounge, its a good Dr. Suess book!
Dr. Seuss once again proves that rhyming tongue twisters repeated over and over and over again will help my child learn to read and associate words and sounds and drive me nuts in the process. It was worth it. Thank you.
When I ordered this book, I thought I was buying a book of recipies. Not only was this an easy to understand cookbook, resulting in the most spectacular dishes I've made in my life, it is also an artistic photo essay  of the culture and cuisine of Thailand that was as mouthwatering as the  food itself. Most satisfying.
Beautiful book!
This book is amazing.  Not only does it have beautiful pictures and history it has all my favorite recipes.  Now I just have to find the Thai ingredients!
Book is awesome!  Shipped fast and book as described.  No complaints.
Fantastic book, as with the rest in the series. The Beautiful Cookbook series is by far the gold standard for photography, recipes and in-depth information for the countries which they feature. Should be a required book series in every home !!
Love this book. Very authentic in the receipts. The question is can you get the ingredients? It's been a great gift for many friends.
This book was much larger than expected, but how else could you hold such detailed and colorful pictures of Thailand? This cookbook is incredible. The recipes are easy to follow and have pictures too. Need to impress family, friends, coworkers? This book will make you into a thai guru. 10/10 would buy again if it burned in a house fire or got lost.
Big and Bulky. Recipes are wonderful and authentic, very easy to follow.
Used bood arrived on time and in good condition.. Given as a gift as a one year anniversary present(paper) to a couple who had good to Thailand on their honeymoon.. They loved the pictures and recipes.
Awesome cookbook! Great dishes that are fun and easy to make. It's nice to have the descriptions of the different ingredients so you know what to look for when shopping.  We have successfully tried several dishes from the book already. We have many more picked out to try soon. Great investment!
inspiring images
This is a beautiful cookbook! Lovely pictures and the recipes are on point. Although not that thick, buyers should note this is an extremely tall book (2ft roughly) so make sure you have a space to store it.
This seller was awesome!  It was exactly as good as he'd said it was...  and better than I'd anticipated.  Thank-you.
I scoured reviews looking for the best Thai cookbook I could find and from what I read, I decided on this one. Very happy I did,  it did not disappoint. My husband love Thai food and he had mentioned wanting to get a Thai cookbook so I wanted to get him one as one of his Christmas gifts. He loved it and has really enjoyed looking at it. It really is a very beautiful cookbook and I am sure we will be using it and enjoying it for years to come.
The book is truly beautiful.  lol  And it sure is big!  The recipes look interesting.  the pictures are beautiful.  I can not wait to use this book.  In the mean time it makes a beautiful coffee table book.  As a coffee table book it's a prefect place to store the book when it's not in the kitchen being used.
Beautiful cookbook. and lots of pictures
this one is paperback...it is great!  great pictures...and great recipes...i really like this book alot..i wish the whole series could of been in paperback vs. hardback..i prefer paperback...i am going to really enjoy this book for a long time...
I've bought three copies of this spectacular book over the years. Absolutely mandatory in any Asian kitchen!
This is beautiful!
It IS a beautiful book, and has wonderful recipes.  I bought it used from Kit Treasures and it came exactly as described, in excellent condition, and was shipped promptly.  A great bargain.
Beautifully written, with stunning photographs of the country and the food.  I like the whole series of the Beautiful cookbooks.  It was a gift for someone whose favorite food is Thai.  I thought this was the best cookbook available.
beautifully laid out book
I have been cooking Thai food for 12 years and always had people say that I cooked some of the best Thai food they have had.  I have a culinary degree and have a very hard time following recipes. I followed the recipes by the number and it blows any Thai food I have eaten out of the water! This is a must have cookbook for anyone that wants to learn or improve there Thai food cooking.
Not only did the book come right away but it is as beautiful as I thought it would be.  The recipes are wonderful.  Books and Beads by Betty - - thank you for your prompt service - - Wish everyone were like you!!!
Out of print, but if you like Thai food and cooking you cant be without it. I cook Thai all the time, have been to cooking schools in Seattle and Bangkok this book IS the real deal. Look on Amazon buy it!
so my new rescue dog, chewed up about 15 cookbooks while I was at work. This one is a favorite and I do use it quite a bit. Although the chewed up book was useable I wanted a new one, so this is the replacement. This book has beautiful pictures and a good history of Thailand. It includes recipes for the curry paste and other condiments as well.
This is a very nice cookbook.  I have not made any of the recipes, yet.  They all look so good.  The book is huge, with gorgeous photos of Thailand and the recipes.
After visiting Thailand I fell in love with the country and their cuisine.  I wanted a good cookbook to learn how to cook their dishes.  The book is beautiful.  It's more than a cookbook.  You can sit for hours just reading all the information on the different regions of the country and their foods.  I would definitely recommend it!
This cookbook was pretty good, the recipes were helpful and the pictures were amazing. Only problem was that the book was tall and I had to rearrange my bookshelves for it.
This has to be one of the most beautiful cookbooks I have ever seen. Very well suited for a coffee table book. It's recipes are organized by region. Fantastic color photography.  You will be very happy with this if you like Thai cooking or are looking for a gift for someone who is.
Huge cookbook with huge photos of the prepared dishes to give an idea of presentation.  Very nice recipes to try out.  Easy to gather enough recipes from this one source to make well balanced meals as well as make large quantities for gatherings of people.
Haven't had the opportunity to actually use it yet (soon though), but the book is rather large and has the appearance of something you'd normally have on a coffee table for leisurely reading, instead of in the kitchen (unless you have a very large, spacey kitchen that allows you to have a book this big laying somewhere that isn't always going to be in the way).  High quality production with nice pictures. I hope they've put the same amount of effort into the recipes as they did into the design and production of the book. If so then it will definitely be worth it.
I have other great Thai cookbooks, but they don't have the beautiful photos of what the food should look like as this book does.
More of a coffee table book, but there are some recipies I will use. Other books in this series I will use more.
It is an unbelievable and amazing that I got a very excellent condition book for a meager fraction of a price! Great deal! love it! The content is worthy and a lot of great food recipes. This helps me from wandering at the supermarket each week when I go shopping. Save money and time.
My mother is Thai and I grew up learning how to cook from her.  This book does a wonderful job of showing photos of the dish being prepared.  Also, the ingredients and instructions are outlined clearly. For those who are interested in the culture and lifestyle of the Thai people the book does a good job providing information without being an encyclopedia.  I originally purchased this book many years ago from a local bookstore.  It has lasted quite well, but I wanted a hard copy to gift to my daughter.  She enjoys cooking with me and I wanted to pass something along that I enjoyed so much.  It would be a great gift to anyone who enjoys to cook Thai food.  Don't hesitate purchasing it.  The recipes are authentic. It is larger than most cookbooks, but is worth the storage space.
This cookbook is filled with amazing pictures and facts about Thailand. The recipes are easy to understand and follow and have a picture included so you can see what your finish product should resemble. I bought this as a gift for my boyfriend but I plan to purchase many more in the future!!
I bought this cookbook for my husband for christmas and he has tried several recipes so far, which we absolutely love!  The art and photography found in this book was beautiful and we enjoyed reading about the history of Thailand.  This cookbook provides a nice background of the country, which makes the recipes special and unique.  These recipes are full of flavors that most people aren't accustomed to, but are delicious and refreshing!
If you're looking for a cookbook that gives you authentic Thai dishes, then this is your book. From simple fried rice to mangoes and sticky rice this book has it all. If you are a fan of amazing Thai food then this book is a worthwhile addition to your cookbook library.
A large format Thai cookbook with amazing photos, and wonderful recipes. I was able to recognize all my favorites as well as find some new ones to try.  You really won't go wrong with this book. Would make a great gift for someone (or for yourself).
The book is physically large, beautifully photographed and explores the diverse cultural and consequently culinary aspects of Thailand. It is by no means exhaustive, but the author is instructive in an easily assimilated way.  The ingredients are generally easy to obtain. The recipes are  well-organized and I believe serve as an excellent introduction to Thai cuisine. You would be well-served and beautifully informed if you were to purchase this book.
I gave this book to my son for Christmas.  He said it is beautifully illustrated.  The first recipe he tried was the Green Curry Chicked, and he said everyone loved it.  He said this is an excellent cookbook.
I have other (hardbound) books in this series and was thrilled to find i could get this softbound but just as gorgeous book.  It came very quickly and in great shape ..... what a bargain!
At Your Thai-ness Cooking Academy, we teach Thai cooking lessons in Victoria, B.C., and in our classes when our students ask which cookbook would we recommend, invariably this is the one we suggest as a good one after they have had a bit of basic training.  The recipes here are quite well researched, and often contain the little "extras" in terms of ingredients that will take a dish from good to excellent.  Most importantly they are organized by region, which helps provide context, and shows that Thai Cuisine is really four regional cuisines.  It is also beautifully photographed, so much so that you might be inclined to keep it on a coffee table rather than in the kitchen where it belongs.  This is a great "first" Thai cookbook, and it also makes an excellent present!
I owned this cookbook once before; My wife gave it away while I was in Iraq in '04 and decided we would lead a raw food lifestyle. That lasted only so long... So I had to find this book again. I would recommend for everyone who loves Thai Cuisine.
This is a great cookbook.  My girlfriend is Cambodian and we like to eat alot of that style of food and I can't wait to try EVERY recipe in here.  All of the recipes have great flavor and the pictures in here are gorgeous.  If you are a fan of this type of food, (as I'm sure as everybody else has already stated) then try this cookbook out.  You won't be disappointed. Some of the recipes call for some unusual ingredients, but that's what makes this cookbook great.  More authentic type of stuff.
This is definitely a great book to have, both because of the recipes and the beautiful pictures, but the best Thai food I've ever made is from True Thai by Victor Sodsook. However, this book doesn't have any pictures and is for people who like it spicy. It does go into more detail about Thai cooking tips but has less about the culture of Thailand. Both are great to have and I use them both often.
Having lived in Thailand, I was very impressed with the beauty of this book. My daughter is a gourmet cook, so I bought a copy for her. But after looking at all the recipes, I knew I had to have a copy for myself. This is the only "coffee-table book" I've ever had that lives in the kitchen! (Except when someone has borrowed it to look up a special recipe.) I've not found a Thai cookery book that is even close to this one. I heartily recommend it to both the new and the experienced cook. And it is the ideal gift for anyone who loves Thai food.
I've just been to Thailand, and there I bought this book as a present for my mother, it's not only simple to make the dishes, but also you can make the food taste just like Thai food (Wich I have to admit I LOVE IT). It's  really worth paying the price for it, you don't get disapointed, besides,  you can see pictures of Thailand, places, people and food, with a brief  review of each region in Thailand. I enjoyed being in Thailand, and enjoyed  the book beeing back in Chile, enjoy it yourself.
My husband and I love the recipes in this book!  We have finally found the perfect Pad Thai recipe in this book after searching for about 5 years. The price of this book is a little on the steep side but if you consider  how much it costs to go out to Thai you can make back the price in 3 meals  or less.  The price was our deterrent before we purchase this book but now  that we have it we can't stop using it.  The wonderful photography and  glossary are added bonuses. The food is perfect in spiciness all though  I am sure others would suggest adding more chilis.  One of our other  favorites is the green chili crab dish.  I made this for my in-laws and it  received rave reviews.  Being from Seattle, we especially enjoy all the  seafood dishes. Enjoy this book because it is a feast for they eyes and  stomach.
This was a very original and complicated story. The story was fast-moving and often funny and suspenseful, but also there were elements that made this book much more complex and lasting than most novels. I particularly found myself wondering about Sara Shaw's arrest and her refusal to tell the story they wanted; they being the police, the powers that be. Was this because she was more guilty than she said? Or was this because she felt a loyalty to the underworld? I also wondered if perhaps Justine was her imagined alter-ego; the killer inside. Oh yes, I also liked the final scene, a very moving and surprising end. I hope there will be a sequel.
When I read this it was like I understood where Sara was comming from, and where she was going. A great book to excape.
In a word--and there are quite a few that can describe this novel--stunning. I was simply floored by the power of Rebecca Godfrey's words and her control over them. The story of Sara Shaw is at once universal and singular. She could be anyone but she can't help but be completely herself. I was immediately drawn into the vivid, alternately fantastical and gritty world of The Torn Skirt. When forced to put this book down in order to sleep or work, I continued to wonder of Sara and her life. Until the very last lines, I had no clue what would come of Sara Shaw and even then, the possibilities are many. Godfrey's use of language borders on the poetic but it's never flowery. She is a bright and economical writer. The descriptions are sometimes sparse in length but the images and feelings they evoke are rich and authentic. This is the book I want to write.
The book takes place in Victoria. The capitol of BC, Canada. It follows a young girl and her trouble with her parents. She ultimately turns to the street and finds comfort in many runaways who she meets along the way. It is an eye opener to the life that many of us don't see. The style of writing accents it highly creating a book that you can't put down. I finished it in less than two days because i was so intrigued by what would happen next
The search for Justine will lead Sara on a daring odyssey into an underworld of hookers and johns, junkies and thieves, runaway girls and skater boys, and, ultimately, into a violent tragedy.
The book was in perfect shape and arrived very quickly! Would order again from this seller.
I am enjoying this series tremendously, keeping me up at night reading.  It is very descriptive of the area and the people.
The entire series is wonderful.
Sadly, the last book in the series.  Excellent author and series!
I enjoyed reading about the adult children of Ross and Demelza and their sojourn into adulthood as Nampara residents. Although not as swept away as I was by Ross and Demelza's love story, the younger Poldarks' struggles with love and life were every bit as real and interesting. I never want this series to end.
If you like books that have great characters and a great storyline then this is the book for you. I read all 12 books and found them to be interesting and kept you wanting to go on to the next book.
Another amazing book! This series is becoming part of my daily life!
As Captain Poldark and Demelza watch their children grow up, we get to fall in love with a new generation with fresh ideas about life.  Wish I had found this book in 1981 when it was published but I thoroughly enjoyed it now as I watch my own children come to age.
Definitely a must read for fans of the Poldark series. Ross and George, now with grown children, continue their rivalry.
My wife loves Poldark -- so I ordered this for her. She very much liked it.
Am hooked on this saga
Smitten  I am.! ...I realize  I will....I must, read the series  in its  entirety. ... They have become  like an extended  family. .must admit  I think  about  them during  my daily routines. .. Have a feeling  I may be taking  a vacation soon...guess where!
Love this series. Characters are very well developed and storyline is most interesting.
Great book!
I love this series
The trama continues to develop & introducing a new character who is mysterious but charming is well done. Wish the characters of the two young men, Valentine & Jeremy would be better developed. Good & interesting & engaging read
Excellent read.
Reading it now. As usual a very good book,
loved it and all things poldark
If you haven't read Winston Graham you are missing a real treat. This is the 8th book in his Poldark series. I got hooked on Poldark on PBS and started reading the books in order. There are 12. I like to order ahead and have the next book ready in my posession so I can pick it up when I finish the previous one.
I am fully invested in the main characters and really appreciate the new ones added here.  Watching Ross and Demelza grow together and build a strong love for each other is the core.  Adding  Dwight, Caroline, Sam, Morwenna and Dirk and Stephen is icing.
The Torn Skirt. Ah. I read this and it left a lasting impression on me. The story is a poetic puzzle that fits perfectly. It is a lot like a dream really.
my friend sandrine and i are rather obsessed with sara shaw. we're not quite sure why. we saw a girl who looked like her on the bus with red hair and the same kind of reverie. we asked her her name and where she was going and followed her for a while. i guess that doesn't make sense. there is a community for this book on live journal so go there if you get it.
This is one of the best books that I have read in a long time. I have read many other teen drama stories and this is by far the best one. It has a realism and a feeling that this is like an actual story that has happened to a real girl. I loved the way in the story mad me feel like I was a witness and I was right there by Sara's side. But with the good also comes the bad the only thing I did not like about the book was the ending.
From the first Poldark novel, Winston Graham has captured my interest. His depiction of life in Cornwall in the late 1700's thru early 1800's is both engrossing and educational. Sadly, I am reading the 12th and final.
Good reading continues.
Winston Graham was an excellent writer and I couldn't stop reading this book.
Like the series
did not like the stranger but the book was good
I like the book series a good read.
Good to read of the Poldarks children as they become adults. Shocked at the number of lecherous men that. are met.
Love the whole series!
More of the Poldark family in the series.  Very intriguing with the story of the Poldark children. Excited to read more!
Good story
Another excellent work in the series.  Great insight to life and daily concerns.  Wonderful vocabulary builder.
Good Story
Thoroughly enjoying the Poldark series.
Whoa!  You would not believe the new character's effect on the young people in this family!  Full of intrigue and suspense.  Can't really stop with just this book--very addictive.  Makes the reader feel you must continue reading all 12 books in the series.  Not only is this a page turner but it entices the reader to pick up the next book in the series to see what else develops in each of these complex characters.
Another book in the 12 of the Poldark saga.  It is such an interesting saga.
Great writing from Winston Graham, as always, excellent plot and rich characters. I wish he was alive to write more of them.
Spectacular - great introduction of new characters from the previous 7 books.
Was a gift.
Excellent
Still good read
The Poldark series by Winston Graham is a great read. There are 12 books in all.
Every one of the Winston Graham Poldark series books is absolutely wonderful.  They are the most enjoyable books I have ever read (and I am 72 years old!!)
This is part of an series  of 12 novels which follows the original character of Ross Poldark and continues to the next generation.  I was hooked from the first book and have enjoyed all 12.  They are so much better than the TV series on PBS.
All the pole ark books continue to weave a great story. Wonderfully written with nuance and at the same time great descriptions of people places and things. Love this series.
as advertised, timely arrival
LOVE THESE BOOKS. DEPTH TO ALL HIS BOOKS.. SO MUCH STORY LINE. !!
Love Poldark!!!!
Wrapped up in the continued  story of a family that is familiar to many Americans.  An interesting combination of politics,  history and family values.  Excellent reading..
Never trust a stranger.
loved it
Cant put it down absorbing series.
Everything one comes to want in a Poldark novel. The ten year jump into the future is a bit jarring at first, but Ross and Demelza remain at the heart of it all, and it's fun to see how their relationship has matured and influenced the lives of their children and friends.
Whole series is a great read (so far).
I loved all of the Poldark series.  I like reading about that period of English history.  It well worth the time I spent reading.  Betty
I love the characters of demelza n ross.  I wouldn't miss most of the rest
This book has added a new dimension to the Poldark saga.  It creates the link between the older Poldark generation and the new.
Loved it
I have enjoyed reading all the "Poldark" books and will finish them until the published series is complete.  Good character development and story line about a time in history that is very interesting.
Yet another fabulous book in the Poldark series!
The whole Poldark series of which this book is one could not be better.  I found it to be an exceptional read.
Execellant historical novel.
Great books wonderful story. I am going to read all of the poldark books!
Winston Graham continues to keep me enthralled with his world of Cornwall and the Poldark clan.
Enjoyed the book as well as the other Winston Graham novels
Great a book!
Captivating series
Wonderful series by Winston Graham.  Good history, good dialogue, robust characters.
Another great episode in the amazing saga of the Poldark family of Cornwall
Wish there were 25 Poldark books, no, 50, no, wish they never would end!!
Great story. Like the way  Graham mixes the history in with his story. Really enjoying these books. On to book 10
Great adventure and mystery as to what the out come will be for Clowance and Jeremy.
This book centers on Clowance. Very interesting interspersing of European history and Napoleon Bonaparte, emerging use of steam power.
This item was a gift
In this book Winston Graham moves us head another decade to follow Ross and Demelza, and their children, Jeremy and Clowance. As always, he weaves multiple story lines with ease to tell this tale. You will not be disappointed in this book. Well done.
Another great story from Winston Graham,about the Poldark family.
Entertaining.  Great continuation of the Poldark story.
This series keeps getting better
I am currently reading the 11th and final book in Ross Poldack series and I have enjoyed each and every one in the series. Each book is a continuing saga of the Poldack family and the individual events are each of sufficient interest to keep the reader involved. I was hooked on the very first book and went thought the 11 books with equal involvement and enjoyment.
This is one of a series, all pf which are an excellent read.
Brought back the trials and tribulations for the poldark familu
Great addition to the series!  Good read!
wonderful the author is as great as all his stories I did read all of the Poldark books starting with number 1 to the twisted sword I went to Cornwall my husband is born in Port Isaac we went to the Poldark mine just great
The writing is better than good but not quite great.  Compelling narrative and wonderful character development.  Interesting and fun continuation of the Poldark story.  The "stranger" makes me nervous.  I can't tell if he's a good guy or a bad guy so I sit on the edge of my chair and read on!
Unlike some of the other reviews I've read, I like the fact that the focus is on the next generation in this book. It's the natural progression and about time we find out who they are at the age Ross and Demelza's romance began. At this point I still am caught up with the story....so ON TO BOOK NINE (yeah!!)
Like all of Winston Graham's books in the Poldark series, this is very well written.  The reader learns a great deal about the era and the difficulties facing the people of Cornwall.
Great read!
In this book one of the most prominent characters comes into the story. An excellent series and all 12 books should be read.
I am presently reading all the Poldark novels and finishing the Stranger from the Sea.  Thoroughly enjoying these series, an entrancing view of early English and Cornwall history; with glimpses of round the world events shaping lives in Cornwall and ENGLAND.
I love the whole Poldark series. Each book held my interest.
I have not read this book yet but I bought the entire Poldark Collection.  Ross Poldark is an awesome read and I am expecting that the rest of the collection will be more of the same!
Great!
Love this series!  I finish one and then have to start the next.  Love the characters and the setting.
love books that take the time to show the complete picture of an historical event, what John Rae did was super human and worth learning about, told in a great story context.
If you are a fan of the search for the Northwest passage and the adventures of the European explorers this is must read.
Good new book, good reasonable price; shipped very fast. Good professional deal and done as described - Thanks very much
Good.storytelling
Loved this book.
I don't have time to write a proper review because I need to start reading the next novel in the series.
The whole series is a can't stop reading from the very first book to the last.  Great characters, story, and twists along the way.
This book picks up as Jeremy and Clowance come of age. It's best to start this series at the beginning, but the author does a good job refreshing my memory as I read the previous books in the 70's, when the first Poldark was on Masterpiece Theater. Ross and Demelza are older, bur still have their humorous and loving relationship. I can't put this book down, just like the previous books. Excellent writing, you feel these people must have ben real!
Rarely have I enjoyed a series as much as this. The characters are richly drawn and  always evolving. Winston Graham has a lovely and novel way of describing the physical beauty of Cornwall and its sea. He has created a fascinating world of 18th century England and describes it as if from firsthand knowledge. The Poldark series stands out as one of my favorites in a long lifetime of avid reading. Aarf!
Exellent book which picks up long after after the TV series ends.  I've read the entire Poldark set of books, all the way through "Bella Poldark."  They never go astray and are all good.  Probably because they were all written by the same author.  Winston Graham is a great writer.
Similar to the Outlander series without the supernatural stuff.  I enjoyed watching the characters grow
Now here is a real HERO, and man's man... a man that left the UK to go work for the Hudson Bay Company in Canada ... it's makes me sad there are so many people in Canada and the NE USA now that many of the places Rae traveled one bumps into people now. It's a great adventure, and he is THE one who brought England the news of the Franklin Expedition home to England...
One has to marvel at how Dr John Rae walked, snowshoes , whatever - all those miles ! Thousands upon thousands ! For sure, he must have been a very efficient walker, easy on the body, just the right strides, just the right metabolism. And...just the right footwear.  Imagine, Dr. Rae going out in the Canadian wilderness, and no shoe store around- the footwear must have been of the utmost top quality. Wish I could find a pair like that !
This book is very meticulously and professionally organized, with a visually appealing and iconographic layout. Superb drawings and illustrations, and authoritative guidelines and instructions make for a pleasurable and informative read.
Arrived on time with good information
Good product.
great Prepper stuff
The book to get.  Hard to find in hard cover, it is the best reference book of its kind.  Softcover tends to be for backpackers and are small.  Probably a good idea to have both types.  Covers everything you need in an emergency.  I wish they might recommend the types of equipment one should have but you have the internet to assist there.
Hell yes. We all know it's coming. Best to be prepared.
This is a great survival book at a great price.  This product shipped from Europe so it took half a month to arrive.  That's my only gripe.
This book is very small which made the book a lot of pages.
Love this
I love it, it is just what I needed!
Great book. I'm an outdoorsman and there is stuff in here I didn't even think of.
Very informative...written in very plain language..awesome book to have in your library
Best survival bible EVER !!! cheap price, tons of info.....
There is so much information in here it is mind boggling.  If God forbid something went wrong, I would hope I could hold up someplace and have this with me.  If your a avid outdoorsman hiker, hunter, etc..This would also be a good read and companion.  I only wish the cover was stronger or hard cover.  The cover is well made as is, but if the poop hits the fan, I would want to be able to stand up for some abuse that would go along elements that would be out there.
Extremely cool book, a lot of good wisdom, and easy to navigate. Thanks guys.
Tons of information, camping enthusiast, and first aid must have for any adventurer.
Amazing book. I suggest it to everyone!
A great deal of information and well illustrated
This book is loaded with survival information.
Great survival guide. Jam packed with so much knowledge and a very good read. Buy with confidence!
This was a Christmas present for my grandson who is into survival stuff. He was thrilled with the book.
A wonderful tool to have in my pack. A must have!
Doesn't have all the answers, but gets you started in the right direction.
one of the better survival books.
This is a must have item when you are building your survival emergency bag. It has all the information for basic survival in the wild where there is no civilization close to you.
Most other survival books seem too basic. This is advanced and has clear explanations with images.
Im learning everything in this book by osmosis..very valuable stuff..life saving
Great info.
Excellent
Just got this book in today, the book is extremely informative. This would be a great addition to anyone's hiking backpack.
Helpful
Received as a gift. It's awesome. Get it.
My dad is a survival/prepper type person. He can't put the book down!  He said it's really good info!
The book is great. So much information in the book. I am new to prepping, great choice!!!
Fountain of knowledge for the camper, hiker or person who wants to prepare for a emergency. Page after page of great knowledge on surviving in all types of environments. Worth every penny.
A lot of great stuff in this book! All you need to know.
Thumb through the book when it came in. Its a lot thicker than I thought (thats what she said). Covers all kinds of topics and suggests little things you may not think about.
Very well written!
I feel this is the best survival book on the market.  I keep the pocket size in my pack at all times.
Excellent resource! Read cover to cover and definitely keeping as a resource for the future. Clear, concise, and a ton of knowledge.
Great book, thanks John for writing this. Keep up the good work. In the world of uncertainty, especially with earthquakes where I live in New Zealand, this book is what I need in terms of survival knowledge.  Having the knowledge is one thing, practicing it is another.  This is something I will read many times over.
So many of this type book out there, but this one stands the test of time.  If space is at a premium and you just can have one book, this is the one.  Others may offer more detail, but if survival is the aim, this one will get you through and do a good job of it.
I really like this book for its content and size. Its well illustrated and includes color pictures. Its packed with information, but small enough for me to take on the trail or other locations with me. I think this is a great survival tool.
Great looking printing real sharp and clean looking. Love the feel of the pages. The book is constructed well. A lot of information I haven't stoped reading it.
Well written and left me waiting for the next book
Great book.
Great Book - in fact the whole Conclave of the Shadows is great, abut best of all if you start at Magician and work your way through the entire series. It's awesome! Take my advice, but the entire series!
Great series, love Feist and his character.
This is for my husband and he seems to like it.
I think that Raymond E. First just gets better and better. So far I haven't read a book by him that I haven't enjoyed. Exile's Return is one more in a l line of successful books and series'.
I don't like the BIG sticker put on book for inventory it ruins the book for us that like to keep our books or resell after reading
His character building is very good the story line is gripping, and easy to follow, it's like reading a movie
A fitting return for Kaspar and a fast paced conclusion to this trilogy.  Weaves together prior story lines and reminds us all to ponder the bigger picture
This is a good read to refresh for  split second reactions to emergencies .
2 thumbs up
I'm quite impressed with this pocket-sized book;  it's filled with such useful and essential information.
My nephew is a big fan of the outdoors, and goes to a wilderness camp every summer. Who better to learn survival skills from?
Great book to learn you essentials in life when it comes to surviving. Over all amazing book. Shipped on time
Raymond E Feist is amazing, another great book in this collection of books that are need to read classics a must read
As we are Big fans of raymond E feist we love it. He writes in a style that you can pick any of his books up and enjoy without needing to have read a previous book in the series
I am a big fan of Feist novels and this book did not change my opinion at all. Very good reading and kept my interest.
A great book. Very informative. The actual book looks like it's it built to last a lifetime, so no worries throwing it in your pack and taking it into the field. A classic for sure.,,
For my go bag
Very informative and seems to be thorough. It went into my bugout bag. While I hope I never have to use it, if I ever need to know how to forage, Ill be able to identify everything and do absolutely everything!
This book is awesome. This has pretty much everything you need..
great
awesome book
Great info.  Nice compact size makes it easy to fit into big out bags, glove box etc. Print is extremely small though.
This is a great survival book! If you are looking for a complete guide I would suggest this one.
Great Story!
You're asking the wrong person.  I love everything Taylor Caldwell has every written.  I'm glad her books are becoming available again.
Great read.  The old classics are my favorite novels to read.  The authors are excellent, real writing.
Very insightful. The political rhetoric could have been written for today.
Very interesting, did not want to stop reading! Pulls at your heart strings!
Raymond E. Feist is simply one of the best authors writing today, I heartly recomend anything he has pened, no exceptions.
This is a well crafted book that gradually draws you in as it develops the seemingly despicable Kaspar to an admirable (well almost) character.  I loved it, as I did the earlier Feist novels. The ending is fine, but just sets us up for more of the story. I am looking forward to the next book...
Great book. Nicely colored illustrations. Thank u
A++ ITEM AND SHIPPER
Keep it in your glovebox.
Great book! looks very nice on the shelf.
perfect
Book was mint when i receive it.  Arrived very fast. My second "Lofty" SAS survival book. This man really knows his stuff. Any type of survival situation you can think of is covered in his material.  Everything is explained in detail and anyone could learn and put to use anything covered in this book. You never know when something youve read and learned from this could be put to use. A great read and I recommend actually taking this book into the wilderness with you and a friend ann some basic tools and trying some of the things taught. You'd be surprised what you can do and how easy it is.
excellent, small, perfect to fit in go bag
Couldn't put it down. Love Taylor Caldwell. I have learned so much from her references to political reality around the time of WWI. If we survived that, America's spirit will win out. I'm going to read everything this prolific author wrote.
Interesting
Excellent review of the Progressive Liberal agenda!
Very informative and good reading
Great gift.
Ex-military with combat training this book gave same info that military uses for survival. It has more than enough info depending on your location, surprisingly a real good general description of your location. Meaning forest, desert or even ocean locations it gives a lot of info. It is small enough to take with you anywhere.
great book
Great book to have just in case! If I had to leave the house with only one item, it'd be this book!
Great book! Filled with survival knowledge. We should all know this stuff or at least have a copy of this book in the house or in your survival emergency pack. My son and I both have read it and both have our own copies. I don't  Great book! Full of information we should all know. My son and I both have a copy and are forever going back and reading sections again and again. There is so much information we just can't retain it all! A must for all survival emergency packs.
Great book, just as advertised
I wish I had read Taylor Caldwell years ago. It's timeless, thought provoking, and frightening that nothing in the world changes.
This book written decades ago, echoes so many things happening in present day.  It's scary how it echoes present day.
It's not often that novels-- even good ones-- make you glad to understand darker truths. This one does. It's a novel about a woman of another era-- or of any era-- and her life, but the bigger picture is about the life of this country. You will recognize the truths in Taylor Caldwell's writing.
Love Taylor Caldwell books. This is my second time reading some of them.
Not enough can be said about how well written this book is or how accurate a description it gives of how American has deteriorated.  It is a must read for every one that is concerned about their future.
As an avid reader, Taylor Caldwell is my favorite author and Ceremony of the Innocent is her best novel.  Totally excellent in every way.
I've read the bad reviews of this book, and it just reinforces the fact that many Americans still have their heads in the sand.  I read this book about 25 years ago and it opened my eyes!  I am currently re-reading it and it is amazing to me how in-tune the author was to what was happening to America back when the book was written.  I do not understand how anyone reading the book today can miss the fact that what she predicted is happening at warp speed today.  Every American should read this book rather than depending on the media to report the truth!.
This a wonderful book about justice vs mercy. Taylor Caldwell was a masterful story teller that understood an era of American history that is magnificent. This is a book recommended to me and was not available at our local library. I was surprised how hard it was to find. Thanks again Amazon for uniting me with a great seller!
The whole world needs to rediscover Taylor Caldwell who speaks then about a world that is happening now. Amazing Author, loved by my deceased (long ago) Mother and now by me.
Many, many years ago, long before Amazon existed, I read this book.  From what I recall, it was extremely engrossing. If I can remember how much I enjoyed, it means that it continues to be well worth reading!
Happy with purchase. Prompt delivery and product is as described.
Very informative
great information put it in my survival box
More like a college corse on survival you need prior experience for this to be useful
Great reading- learned a few things- my wife enjoyed it too. Many good nuggets if info.
This book is Great!
A lot of information.  Great read for sitting on the can at work and home.  Has basically everything you need to make it in the wild.
Read it cover to cover. Well worth it. Learned a lot.
Nice to have this book in a smaller lighter weight version to put in the pack
Art is in the eye of the beholder.  While some may have failed to see the "message" in this book,  I think that this story tells more about human nature, and its dark side, as well as giving great insight  into who is really calling the shots in the destruction of America, than any book that I have ever read.  The "innocence" here, as epitomized by Ellen, is also symbolic of what Americans have become as a people.....apathetic, brainwashed,  and unwilling or unable to believe that there are "elites" who would like nothing more than to control every facet of our lives by destoying the middle class, and  bringing Communism/Socialism to this country.  With the current political climate and the manipulation of our economy,  the undermining of our morals,the brainwashing of our our youth, and the very good chance that we will soon be a socialistic country, this book is very timely.
To the conspiracy addicts, it a great book. She minces no words. She comes right out with it, from the hip and, especially, from the heart. To the  romance set, she is superb. Delicately bringing man and God together, where  they should have been all along. A truly fine book. One I will always  cherish. She has grave concerns about our country. She has in depth insight  into human nature and, above all, she places God where He belongs: in all  human endeavors.
My first Taylor Caldwell book and I can't wait to read more of her works.  Initially, I was reluctant to read this novel---from its outward  appearance, it closely resembles a romance novel. Indeed, there is romance,  but the overriding theme is the political message which the reader cannot  help but relate to what is happening in (to) our country today.  I intend  to buy more copies and distribute them to my friends.....
Love this book. Am a huge bushcraft enthusiast. Everyone should own this book
There's some great information in this book! I'm not a prepper, mountain man, or anything like that. I just wanted it for general information because you never know! A person could find themselves in a situation where information in this book would be helpful, possibly even save their life or the life of a loved one.
I found this guide very informative. A buddy of mine suggested it and I'm glad I purchased this.
Great pocket guide! Def easy to toss in a pack and take with you. Covers all kinds of topics and situations. There is also an app you can download. I only downloaded the free version so it is not comprehensive but does have good tips and emergency information if you run into a problem when you least expect it!
Lots of great info I hope I'll never have to use. It is a British book so some of the terms used are more local but easy to understand in the context
great info
very good info that you may need
This is the most thorough book I have ever read n Survival, It has lots of pics in it to help you be able to see the plants, animals and other things so you will be able to find them a lot faster, This book covers almost any emergency situation and also has info on medical. knots and how to do them and traps , hunting, cooking your kills and so much more.  I am recommending this to everyone I know because it just could save your life in unexpected situations. Great to pack in your bug out bags.
Broad spectrum book with lots of good material. Good reference book to carry in  the Jeep
This book will help you and guide you through any survival situation.
this book is great could not stop when i started.  can not wait for the next book.
Wieman's directions are easy to read, understand and remember.  I found the book itself to be too heavy and thick to carry in a quick bug out bag. But, again, the content is brilliant.
Great little book (actually a small book) to put in your backpack when you are going out and about. It has all kinds of info that may or may not apply to what you are doing but nicely written and makes you wonder if you can make some of the different things in the book.
This is the best Survival guide out there and it is pocket sized so you can take it anywhere. They are reasonably priced so you can buy several. Put one on your desk, pack one in your camping gear, and put one in your BOB (for those so inclined). Easy to read, easy to follow, and easy to perform.
Epic book to read when i'm bored. Fast shipment too.
This book has so much information.  I pray that I have it with me if I should ever be in a survival situation.  Every page has interesting information.
Great book! Lots of life saving information! Covers multiple scenarios.
Thorough. :)
Great book, as usual.  Now have all the Sean Dillon books and have read them all in order.  Most are on Kindle  but 3 are actual books.  Can't wait until the next one comes out.
Love it, Higgings done it again!
have a blessed new year
good thanks
I've read this series numerous times, and I have all of them on my Nook, but for some bizarre reason, three books in the series aren't available in e-books, and this is one of them.  I was glad to be able to find this book, as my library didn't carry it.  I will keep this in my "real" library to enjoy this series over and over.
I have ordered the complete series  of this main character.  I love the suspense, moving action, and story plots.  Great reading.  I recommend the whole series.  My only wish was tat all the books were on KINDLE.  I had to order 3 paperbacks in order to read the series in the order of their publication dates.
We have followed Jack Higgins hero, Sean Dillon from the beginning, but when i wanted to put them on my ipod, this one was not available.  Fortunately I was able to find the tapes, convert to cd and load into the computer.  I am thrilled.
i love it, its small body makes it an easy pop in to any survival/camping bag
A greaty read
This is a tiny, pocket version of the book. It's interesting and useful, though I can't say I've read it all or tried most of its contents. Ideally, I should read it and practice it before I need it. Good info though.  Hope that helps.
I have skimmed through this book and it has so much good info. Good pictures as well.
Perfect pocket size edition. I have it in my pack. It has a lot of useful information.
Very well written survival guide. It covers just about every situation and location you could ever be in.
One of the most thorough survival guides out there
I read this book in like two hours. it was by far one of higgins's best books.finalley theirs a  good villian and story plot .but also in reading this I really got to know sean dillon a lot better on an emontional level.but in short i found nothing wrong with this book and,I loved it
Great book, Good information!
Cannot go wrong with enough survival information. Throw a copy in every BOB.
British version so having to translate some wording but the book is a great resource.
Got what I expected
Fast shipping, great quality, good price.
This book starts out with a bang and never stops throughout. The  Rashid family have made a fortune in the oil business. The family  is composed of the Arab Rashids and the English Daunceys. The  Sultan of Hazar has negotiated a deal with the Americans and the  Russians for oil concessions in Hazar. The Rashids see this as a threat to their wealth and decide to take action. First the Sultan  of Hazar is assassinated. Then the Rashids decide to assassinate  the President of the United States. This plan falls short. Next  they try to kill the ruling Council of Hazar. Dillon and company  foil their attempt and also kill one of the Rashid brothers. They  next try to kill the Russian Premiere but fail again. Another  Rashid brother is killed. Dillon finally has a showdown with the final living Rashid brother. Dillon wins again. The ending of the book ;eaves room for a sequel and a final showdown for Dillon and the Rashid sister Kate. This was a very good book. Be sure to read it.
Great read and reference imho.
This book seems to cover everything! My fiance and his dad couldn't put this book down.
One of the best all around Bushcraft/Survival books there are. I recommend it highly and have given and recommended it to many friends who love it also.
I just skimmed through this book. It is very informative and has a very wide range of subjects (including surviving police encounters). It should be taken everywhere.
Very informational.
Quick shipping and product worked as advertised
A must have reference for disaster planning and prep!
Jack Higgins, my favorite author, does it again.  In "Edge Of Danger", we have our old favorites Sean Dillon, Brigadier (now promoted to general) Ferguson, Chief Inspector Hannah Bernstein and others.  This is a genuine thriller, with an ending that will surprise you.  Don't miss it!
If you are truly interested in survival this is the best all-in-one book you can find
Great and compact i take it with me when i backpack
Great book.
Bought this for my boyfriend who said he wanted one with pictures. Exactly what he wanted.  He was also surprised at how much info is in the book.
Awesome!
Great book!!!
Amazing book I recommend good job
A handy manual to  keep you out of trouble when things go wrong.  Nice compact size
What an amazing, insightful and helpful world of knowledge! John Wiseman could have written the ULTIMATE guide to survival, here. Not only does it teach you the basic mechanics of survival, but it also goes in-depth of various survival scenarios and suggested actions and gear, but it also provides a visual guide to edible/medicinal plants and a poisonous animal plant guide as well. This is a book for anyone looking to learn more about survival.
I really cant say enough about this book. It really should be considered the Bible of survival. It has everything you need to know , starting with basic knowledge. Prepping your B.O.B , mental preparedness. Then gets into more in depth stuff like identifying poisonous plants and animals on land , sea and sky. Then eatable plants and animals and Medicinal plants . How to track animals for water. How to acquire water and food. Trap setting , fire starting , animal tracking , self defense , signaling for help , how to use the jetstream when stranded at sea , emergency medical , child birth , evacing injured  comrades and casualties , urban survival , how to survive natural disasters , rope tying and tons more. Essentially if you need it to survive , its in this book.
Very informative for beginners or seasoned vets alike.
Good read for survivalist.
tons of information.......none of that Rambo nonsense that people dream up. Down to earth ideas strongly suggest for every house hold. Sally M
Ever since Cornwell's first Sharpe book, fans have wanted to know the complete story of Sharpe beginning his climb up the ranks of the Brittish army.  A real treat for readers is the appearance of Sgt Obidiah Hakeswilll, the villian who has become a favorite of mine. This book is well writen and one of my personal favorites of the Sharpe series.  It seems to show more of the vulnerability that is encased in the young Richard Sharpe.  The battles in India also add to the readers understanding of Brittish colonialism.  After completing this novel I could not help but eagerly await the next Sharpe novel "Triumph".
This book is a great example of well done Historical  Fiction and I enjoyed it a great deal.  Mr. Cornwell  said in his interview, which I read, that he is not well  known in this country.  All I can say, is that he should be!  I saw a movie adaptation of Sharpe's Eagle and another  novel on the History channel and enjoyed them fully.  I will be ordering more of the Sharpe series soon!!
This is great stuff for the armchair adventurer with a a bad case of nostalgia for the old colonial days. The author's Boy's Own Paper-style still holds appeal for those raised to serve one's country while the tigers and heat of Mysore are there for good effect. Sharpe's the word with more to come, I hope.
It's another exciting page turner featuring Sean Dillon.  This time he's dealing with the wealthy Rashid Family (three brothers and one  sister) who are half Arab and half British nobility.  It's makes for a very interesting plot line and story with Sean Dillon who is capably assisted by Blake Johnson, Charles Ferguson and Hannah Bernstein and a few others.  The end of the story is good for it sets up the reader to anxiously await the sequel and the further adventures of Mr. Dillon and Kate Rashid.
This is a amazing book with tons of useful information. A must have for beginners and even individuals with experience. Would recommend doing to anyone.
The SAS Survival Guide is a wonderful little book for on the go. The book offers detailed information on survival and basic issues without being uber complex. The book is just a bit larger than a woman's palm and easy to store. There are a few pictures and an added dash of humor tossed in to keep you entertained and amused while learning in the same process. I enjoyed reading the SAS Survival Guide and plan on getting another for my car soon.
goo book to have these days
Got as a present. My brother liked it.
An excellent deal with good, practical advice!
Awesome read!
Good handbook
I've read the first two entries in the series. Great so far. Viscerally persuasive military details, great characters. Sharpe must get better at killing the dastardly Hakeswell. Stop delegating the assignment to tigers and elephants. Says so in the scriptures.
Well written, good story.
Great read
I am a Bernard Cornwell fan for a while now, and NONE of his fictional work is boring. Its a great read...
It is nothing short of brilliant.  This book sets you up for the whole series, and the ongoing encounters between Sharpe and Hakeswill .
A good read. Exciting and historical.
Awesome guide!  Full of information. Just the right size to  throw in my pack.
happy
excellent little book, full of great information.
Love this book. It offers very practical advice for survival, and is succinctly written. Been looking for something like this for a while.
Arrived  as  advertised. Great transaction
Great survival book
This is a small book but seems to be printed well and is weather proof. It contains a lot of good information.
Everything was greatthe story, the lion (Aslan), and all of it! The McKay kids all give a huge thumbs up!
A classic. I will read this to my kid/grandkids if I ever have any.
Still a great book!  I cant wait to read the series to my grandchildren when they  get a little bit older
I wanted to introduce my little cousins to some of my favorite stories, so I purchased this and we all love it.
My children loved this book and can't wait for me to read it to them again!
I bought this for my son. He enjoyed it so much that he has asked that i get him the whole series. I enjoyed reading a part of it as well. I enjoyed the play of faith and sacrifice which I think we need for today.
My absolute favorite books as a child. A must read for kids that love adventures.
Read to second graders every year and they love it just as I do each time I read it!
I have been looking for a new author with great historical fiction.  After reading all of Paul Christopher's Templar series, I was stuck.  Someone suggested Bernard Cornwell's Sharpe's series, wow was this a good book.
good one but I am going back over the Shape series from PBS BBC. Just finished the book and going to stick with reading those not  film. My fifth Cornwell book and enjoyed them but I need to rest between books.
They should have had this one in the TV series. Excellent read and narration! I could tell the characters apart easily.
A wonderful addition to the Sharpe series! Historically accurate and full of realism, excitement and drama. Well worth the time.
good read moves fast
Very good
My first Bernard Cornwell book, but not my last. I couldn't stop reading it. I am not a big fan of the late 1700's or of India, but the author "put me there and then" without my realizing it. Genuinely a master of a fine story.
Cornwell is like a historical artist. He paints such a realistic picture! Great book!
Great novel! very accurate and ties in with the first book
Love the book didn't want to wait for library copy
great book gave to great nephew
Perfect
I bought this for my 8 y/o grandson and we have been reading it together. He loves it.
My 10 year old loves it!
One of my favorite books. This particular version is quite compact, but the traditional illustrations are still in here, I think all of them.
I've heard others complain how small this book is, and I agree it IS small. But I think that is the point, it is pocket sized and portable, and packs a lot of punch. It is thick too, packed with many topics and full color illustrations and pics,  I think this may be the most trustworthy survival guide out there.  Topics include essential gear, identification of wild food sources (with lots of color illustrations for identification), traps,  weapons, camp craft and many other subjects.  It is a small goldmine of information. I'll  update as i read through it and try some of the stuff discussed. I highly recommend this book, not only for its content, but because of its size - this will fit in your pocket when you need it most.
Good read very informative
a must have
a must have
This is a thick little book. Perfect size for packing.
Good read
good stuff to know
I can open any page at random and instantly find something amazing to learn.
This little book is packed with useful information! Excited to get out and try out some of the techniques, pictures and the descriptions are pretty easy to read and follow.
A most enjoyable book about an actual event embellished with some fictional characters as necessary to make the story entertaining and realistic. There were some grammatical errors from the transference of the text but that was not the fault of the author. This is the first book in a series about Sharpe's adventures as a British soldiers.  The author explains complicated battles in an easy to visualize fashion. This is certainly one of the best books I have read and I recommend it highly if you like history and military action.
an excellent piece of historical fiction. The characters are believable and the attention to detail is impressive.
Fascinated by Bernard Cornwells stories.  After reading Saxon tales  I decided to give this series a shot.  This is the first book in the Sharpe series and it takes place in 1799 India so that caught my interest as  I don't know much about that history.  Cornwell does an awesome job of blending a fictional story of Richard Sharp, an enlist British soldier with the historical event and characters.  Time to read the second book.
First Sharpe novel I've read after reading all of the Uhtred/Last Kingdom novels.  Another awesome bit of historical fiction!
Another great Sharpe novel by the master storyteller Bernard Cornwell.
Cornwell is the best at what he does
This book was excellent.
Best book ever! So much adventures and great cliff hangers that make you read more! I love this book and highly recommend it!
I liked everything I recommend this book for the whole world  I rated this book a five star book because I could really understand the book  and this is a Christian  Cadagory.
A great gift for a child who loves to read. She cherishes her books.
Easy read. Good for children. Adults too.
This tale never gets old! Rereading it always feels like getting together with a dearest friend! I love all the Narnia books but this is my favorite of the seven stories.
Love this. The pictures are GORGEOUS.
Beautiful book at an excellent price of less than $8 hardback, with a book jacket and illustrated. Excellent abridged version of this classic tale for younger readers. My six year old son loved the movie. I purchased this as a bedtime story length version. In a few years we will read the actual full length story. Very happy with this book!
Very useful information, it's a heck of a read great diagrams and drawings sort of a Bible on the subject anyone looking into this kind of information needs to pick up a copy ASAP
Full of great info!
I recently gave my Second Edition of this book to a friend and bought the Third Edition. This book is even more packed with great survival situation advice and how-to guides.
Very well written and researched, interesting read and handy pocket size!
Love the amount of useful info they pack into such a small package.
Bought this for my boyfriend and he LOVES it! He wants another one.
Great book.  Very detailed.  Perfect size for a go bag.  Defintely recommend.
This was a gift for my nephew. He thought this was really cool and he's having fun learning about all of the stuff in the book.
This book is fast paced and full of adventure. The author does a really good job at describing the characters and the backdrop of the story. I know almost nothing about this part of history and the author does a really good job at explaining everything so one understands how everything of that era works. This book is what I love about reading, finding out new things and Sharpe is a great protagonist. Will definitely read more of the Sharpe series in the future.
Action packed from beginning to end. Awesome introduction to a main character I plan on getting to know throughout this series
A fun read in a part of history that I have rarely looked into.  Moves right along with lots of action and suspense.  I will purchase more of Cornwell's "Sharp Series."  Always enjoy his great historical fiction !!  Dave Kelly, IN
Excellent
bought it for my niece.  One of my favorite books of all time
Wonderful book to add to my C.S. Lewis collection. Coloring is great to add to the look of the Banes drawings. They are wonderful in their own way.
I love the illustrations in this book! It does a great job of summarizing the story and the illustrations are so engaging. This will be a loved book for many years.
I have enjoyed C.S. Lewis as both an adult and a child. I find pleasure in again reading stories I enjoyed in my youth.
Good quality, wonderful story and messages for kids
lots of interesting info, a good book to read while camping or on the john.
Good stuff. Makes a great reference, Has lots of details.
great
Love it, well explain, easy to read
I'm not dead yet so it must be an okay guide. If it fails me you will never know. Read through it and found some important information. But, honestly, this is a last ditch guide to not dying. If you need it then you're getting pretty desperate and society has truly collapsed. Not a bad guide for the price though.
Bugout bag item, a must have.
Great survival book, bought one for all my survival bags
great book
A must have for any survival kit or hiking pack. You may think you know it all but there is bound to be something in this book you did not know and its hard to remember it all so carrying this with you ensures you will always have the knowledge with you to survive or ya know simply camp and have fun. A great gift for a hunter, hiker, camper, or anyone you know that spends time outdoors in the bush.
Good book
Great
I have read other books by Cornwell so I decided to start with the Sharpe Series in chronological order. The first book was up to the usual Cornwell standards. Very well done. I always have to resist cheating and flipping to the end to see how things turn out.
Great book and author.
love it
Classic Cornwell.  Well done.  Well researched.
The 1st of the Richard Sharpe series. A rousing adventure story about a reluctant soldier who fights with fierce passion and cunning more to stay alive than for king or country. In 1799, the British attacked the fortified city of Seringapatam in order to depose the Muslim ruler, The Tippoo. They had left him on the throne in 1792, but because of his alliance with France and Napoleon, now needed to be unseated. Sharpe is sent into the city as a spy posing as a deserter, with the noble yet unskilled Lieutenant Lawford, in order to obtain vital information that will help the British succeed with their invasion. He and Lawford are captured, and must rely upon their wits and several secret allies to escape and avoid disaster for the British army. A wonderfully-written and engaging story.
Just as good as the author's other series.
Compact little book chock full of useful information. Keep one with you!
This little guy is slightly larger and only a bit heavier than the renowned altoids tin, but has everything in it that could save your life, and you can't put that in a tin. Wiseman is clear and concise, gives us the why's as well as the how's. I'm a buscrafter, not a survivalist, and this book stays in reach when I'm at home in case I think of something I want info about, and it lives in my edc pack when I walk out the door. If you spend any length of time outside, you should be aware by now that stuff can and will go wrong, and sometimes it could be catastrophic. Wise man's got you covered. I strongly recommend this small book as a life saver.
A good edition to my bug out bag
Recommend this pocket book for everyone, California anyway. The big ones coming, earthquake that is :)
good
I was going to give this to my daughter but I decided I had to keep it.. I've only thumbed through it so far the writing is kind of small for my old eyes..but I have learned a lot and love everything I've read. I highly recommend it. Perfect size to fit in a backpack.
Worked as designed.
This was a hit with the grandkids.  What a great way to introduce young children to great literature.
The book my son needed for school. All of my kids enjoyed this story. Conveineint to order on Amazon.
I love returning to the land of Narnia year after year. This was the first year I got to share the magic with my kids as I read to them every night before they went to bed. They loved it and already want to go back.
I just read this book with my kids!  Great time together and good conversation to follow. I highly recommend this book.
I couldn't read it quickly enough. Its everything you heard about it and more. A must read for every one.
This is a very enjoyable book! I can hardly wait to read the rest of the series and really see the correlation between the Bible and the Narnia series. While an easy read for children, this book offers more in depth understanding for adults.
Light, lighthearted, very fast paced, wonderful children's fantasy tale! Really efficient story telling that leaves you wanting more. Because its short. But very good.
Classically good!
One of my favorite books! Ordered as gift with Advent in Narnia.
I've read all the Sharp's Rifle series, and was glad to know these books were a prequel to those. Cornwell picks up right were he left off, and I look forward to reading the others in this series.
Woo flippin hoo. What a great time traveling ride. If you love Hornblower, Killer Angels, Master and Commander you will love Sharpe. Do yourself a favor and grab as many of these titles as you can for a penny plus shipping.
I love this author and do buy his new books on Kindle at full price and I heartily encourage new fans to check this series out. But I just can't make myself fork over $9.00 for a older book which stinks because I would love to have the whole Sharps series on my kindle.
Loved the Saxon series by this author and wanted more.  This is the first book of the Sharpe series, and its a page turner.  Cornwell really knows how to keep the excitement level up.  I'm sure I'll finish this series too, and my only complaint is that I have to buy them one at a time since I can't find the series bundled for sale.
this is a continuation of tales of richard sharpe and they are great
Excellent book.
Smaller than I expected but still a good value
great
Has a TON of useful information, definitely worth it!
still reading the book
I've enjoyed this series every since I saw a movie as a little girl. This book is rich in character and teaching about pride and how it can quickly take hold of a person. A good adventure for young and old alike.
Excellent book to read to young christians. I read this to my four year old and we both thoroughly enjoyed it!!! Awesome book! I liked it way more than the movie.
I really like the book it has beautiful pictures and i love the story.
The words are clear and the pictures are to
The color pictures make a big difference.  Nice quality book.
The Kids (Age 6 to 13) love it.
Right, my son likes it very much!
Wonderful book! My son and I had fun listening to it.
Great children's book.  Before it's time; filled with wonder and snippets of another world.  You can almost taste the children's adventures and mrs beavers fish and potatoes.
Blew through in a day and a half. Couldn't put it down. Tried to watch the series but it's so low budgeting cringed at every attempt at "action" so I figured I'd read the series instead. Was not disappointed.
The best action book i have ever had.
Absolutely outstanding kick-off to the Richard Sharpe Series. Coming from a traditionally non-fiction enthusiast, I was really quite hesitant when I picked up this book. Historical fiction for me was skeptical at best and could never really grip you as tight as a war diary or vivid description of fighting men during the Napoleonic Age. But I was proved wrong, and in that case seriously proven wrong. Cronwell's vivid portrayal of Private Richard Sharpe is a fabulous journey to an exotic time in the British Empire and their domination over India. Thoughtful, provoking and full of adventure, this book is a must read for any avid fan of Napoleonic history, historical fiction, or excellent writing.
This is the beginning tale in the Richard Sharpe series; he is a lowly private in the British army, fighting the Tipoo's troops in India. If you want to know about how Sharpe started off, this is where to begin. This novel also features a certain Colonel Wellesley, who later becomes the famous Duke of Wellington. This novel is the usual Bernard Cornwell work, richly detailed with almost visual descriptions of weapons, uniforms, places, orders-of-battle, and everything in between. Oh, and Cornwell captures the human side in almost every scene; he develops characters so that you really understand how the person thinks and feels. The only other author who comes close to Bernard Cornwell is, perhaps, Ralph Peters, an author who writes about modern armies and battles.
Great ;historical book
Very informative.  Yes I would buy for a gift
Ordered 2 as gifts and now had to ordered one for myself.  Amazing little book with tons of great info.
I've read over a dozen survival guides, this is the best!
This book is small and this book is loaded with useful information.  If you want the perfect book for a bug out bag this is it.  No fluff here, just the good stuff.  Everyone that goes into the outdoors should take a look at this book.  It could honestly save your life.
Great for all around knowledge of things and why not have one you may never know when this will come in handy.
Lovely book. I bought it as a gift for my granddaughter and she loves it!!
love this book
These keep getting presented in chronological order, which is a shame, to me. Maybe I'm old fashioned (I grew up with these books) but this, the Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, should absolutely be first - to me, it just makes the whole thing a better overall story. Yes, it means the second-last book is the "creation" of Narnia, but it leaves that bit of mystery hanging over the whole thing until just near the end. The series feels like it loses some of its magic and charm read in the (currently popular to publish in) chronological order.  It's a highly recommended series, though, regardless of order.  (What is "published order?" The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, Prince Caspian,VOyage of the Dawn Treader, th SIlver Chair, The Horse and his Boy, the Magician's Nephew, the Last Battle - basically, the same as the movie order so far.)
This is the book that taught me to love to read. Infinitely re-readable and an absolute joy. Forget any preconceived ideas you have sit back and enjoy. I have read this friend more time than I have years and I have quite a few years.
Much better than I expected.
Read this book to my little girls and they loved it. We also watched the Movie and they had a wonderful time with it.
Grand daughter took it home before we finished reading it, but says she loves it.
good
Excellent
It seems like some sort of sacrilege to cry while reading a war novel, much less to admit it to millions of strangers, but I did (multiple times) and I am (now).  H.M.S. Ulysses is many things: a thrilling and  perfectly-plotted action novel; a harrowing and accurate rendition of life  in a (very far) North Atlantic convoy; a meditation on men, bravery, honor,  courage, cowardice, life, and death. But for me, it is first and foremost a  tremendously powerful, tragic, and ultimately affirming tale of redemption.  I haven't done it any sort of justice, but that's just as well.  You'll  just have to read it.
I read this as a very young man, experienced the sea as an older one, and found his rich descriptions of the convoy's battle with the storm to be realistic, and every bit as bad as I remember winter in the North Atlantic to be.  I carry some of the scars he speaks of, and the workmanlike bravery of his characters, as well as the very human fears that some of them give in to, speak about ordinary people we all know. This one's a winner for anyone who wants to experience a winter hurricane in the North Atlantic, in the saftey and warmth of their favorite chair. I've been there, and apparently, so had the author.
Very entertaining. Very fun. I spent a few very late nights enjoying reading about Richard Sharpe kick Tippoo butt. Well worth the read.
The Sharpe series, in my opinion is the best action fiction series I have read. I have started reading the series again, fortunately at my age it's almost like reading it the first time.
another GREAT book by Bernard Cornwell, Peter Cataldo, Rome, NY
I loved the TV series so i decided to read the books. They arevery entertaining. Love the history behind the stories. Well done fun read!
I bought it as a gift. It has a lot of nice and usefull tips from every area which everybody should know - not only trekking geeks. I missed it's  small size (not very handy for reading but very useful for carrying with you on the trip).
Very handy and complete. Teaching my grandson the points and issues for his many observation hikes west of Denver. One does not know when the mis-step will happen, down into the canyon one may tumble with only a whistle, knife and this life saving book.
Great information in this book! Very detailed wmdcwith photos as well!
great book
Fits great in backpack. A lot of good information.
As described
must have for a bug out bag
one of the best survival books I've ever had the chance to get my hands on . it will be very help fool...
works as advertised.
One of my favorite fantasy novels. Thought it is a children's book, and even if you're an adult, (me, not an adult yet but 18) you'll get yourself absorbed in this magic world once you start reading it! especially with this perfect narration. I'm reading this whole series all over again. I'm just wondering why audible for other books in this series aren't available.. (yet i'll have to admit that if your an atheist, it could be.. a bit.... well, i don't know.....)
This book is an absolute classic. The story has so many levels of meaning, taking it for a classic children's story full of whimsy and magic, to the in-depth look at sin and salvation, God's love for us and sacrifice. I bought this to share this with my young daughter and I look forward to sharing with my other children over and over again as they grow.
What a great series of books!
This book is great for people that love adventures and fantasy stuff. This was an amazing book for me when I fist read it but it still makes me want to find out what happens next. You need to read this book if you haven't yet.
I loved it when I was a kid and now enjoy reading it with my children
My Grandson loves this.  Exactly as expected.
Fast shipping, exactly how described
Sharpe meets obstacle after obstacle and his enemies do not eadily give up, neither does private Sharpe. Good reading to you.
bloody, gritty, brave and based on factual events in India's history under the British Rule.  the main character is a very brave soldier who likes his share of the loot.  can  recommend for teenagers looking to release their pent up hormones.  you can do this with these books.  read them in order otherwise the story will make no sense.  you will love the bloody Scots.
This is the book that started Cornwell's success.  The formula works.  Over the series Richard Sharpe rises through t he ranks as he tracks the career of the Duke of Wellington.  It is military history wrapped in a good story.  If you are intrigued with the history of the British Empire, the carreer of Wellington, or how the British Army worked, or didn't, this is the series to pick up.
prompt delivery
Bernard Cornwell is a favorite author.  Sharpe's Tiger did not dissapoint me.
Great read! A real page turner. Don't start this book if you have to go to work tomorrow!
What's not to love about Bernard Cornwell's Sharpe series? I am reading it for a second time and love it.
No One is better, at action as this author, I love everything this author has ever wrote.
Family member loves these books b McLean.
A true classic. With all of the books he's written, still the best!
Rich character development, realistic combat scenarios and a vivid story telling that transports the reader to the deck of the ship in the midst of the Arctic winter where the odds are desperate and the heroes many.
Includes illustrations from print version, classic.
During World War II, four children are evacuated from London to a big, empty professor's house in the country. They eventually find a magic wardrobe that takes them to Narnia and an extraordinary adventure with fawns, centaurs, and talking animals. When I first read The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, I felt there must be a magical Under-the-Coffee-Table or Closet, even a magical corner or anything that could take me to Narnia. You can't help being pulled into the imaginary world of Aslan (The Lion), Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy as they work to defeat the evil White Witch with an army of mythical creatures. C.S. Lewis really used his knowledge of Greek myths and his friendship with Tolkien to make my favorite series of all time. - by John Scott, 10 years old
love the book
Perfect summarised version
I read this book to my 7 year old granddaughter. She recommends that you buy this book. It's a wonderful adventure!
This book was so great . I really like Lucy . I give it a 5 or 100. The  End
perfect
this was a gift for a great young person, a must read!
Just what I wanted
TONS of information, plus color illustrations (perfect for the edible plants section) - read all the way through it in one sitting - so much practical info. Love it!
Nice book for the U.K. Some of it carries over to the US. There are better books available.
Title says it all, small enough to include in family BOBs
Has alot of helpful info in it for camping and stuff
Outstanding story of the Battle of the Atlantic during WWII.  Graphic and absorbing.  A true classic.
What an excellent story! Reading the story was so intense that you felt as part of the action being described. Alistair is an exceptional writer and I plan to read more stories written by him in the future. Wow, what a wonderful story although a very grim one. I most certainly highly recommend reading this book to anyone interested in reading a fantastic story. Thanks for a wonderful experience and imaginative story telling.
The most realistic, most gripping and most memorable of MacLean's books, probably because he lived it in some measure. A bit unusual also in being about themerchant marine and not the fighting Navy.
A great story of a navy vessel trying to survive under challenging conditions. A great read even if you do not usually like navy stories. The characters are filled out and great.
This is the first time I read the first novel by Alistair MacLean ... It is different from other ones ... There is no double crossing spies and back stabbers ... This is pure adventure in a frozen Hell of war ... Great Read ...
One of my favorite World War II fiction novels.  It is considered one of the finest written about that time period.  The author's personal experience in the North Sea during the war sets the tone for the story.
An amazing tale of heroism and terror during wartime.  I couldn't put it down.
This is arguably the best description of the incredible hardship endured by the sailors (both naval and merchant marine) on the Arctic convoys to Murmansk during the second world war. It faithfully details the endurance needed to conduct these operations, written by someone who went through them. I heartily recommend it to anyone.
Could still remember a lot of the plot!!! That should tell you something about the quality of the book!!! +++++ U.A.  is one of my favorite  authors along with E.E. Doc smith, Andre Norton, Edward Beach to name a few.
I've always loved this series. Now my child is reading it for school. I love the audio feature. Though I love to read aloud my voice has been rather overused in coaching.
My 8 yr old enjoyed this book
My children LOVE this book! I highly recommend! There are a few sentences that do not accurately reflect C.S.Lewis' novel, but overall I think this children's version is good. When I read this to the kids, I just change the two sentences orally.
A gift for a relative who is in the play Said it was very helpful in their performance
Should have readers stored with this. It is a small hand book. Perfect for travel.  It has a lot of information.
Bought this as a companion to the full sized edition of the same book, for a bugout bag.  PERFECT SIZE.  Readable, though small print, VERY SATISFIED.  Will buy more copies for family and other uses.
Husband likes it
Excellent little book, crammed full of really useful information, highly recommend!
Excellent!
Great little book, lightweight, that can fit in your pack. Invaluable in emergencies or being prepared for anything bad that may come your way.
Good info
Good product.
Some great info.. have read many good survival books and this book just finishes the extra details that the others don't finish.  I really like it..
This is an important work because it captures the feeling of a doomed crew in 20th century war.  Many people don't appreciate that between World War I and World War II, seamen around the world found themselves on doomed vessels and yet continued to fight, to persevere.  This tale is one fictional example of men pushed past the point of no return and still kept doing their jobs.
Great war story, about men in combat... Old rich language you don't find often in books. Pleasant to read.
I've read this book 3 or 4 times now. It's an incredible story of courage, loyalty, human frailty and the horrors of the North Atlantic convoys during WWII. Although the story follows the actions of a British cruiser, it also details the incredible bravery and sacrifice of the Merchant Marine Service; a service that should not be forgotten. It's, at times, bleak but there is humor and a wonderful cast of characters.
It's hard to believe that this was Alistair MacLean's first novel.  Unlike many war novels written in the 1950s, this book has a great balance between action, character development, and clear descriptions of the ship and the conditions faced by the sailors.  MacLean's naval experience pays off as he describes each part of the ship with clarity.  "Page turner" may be a worn out clich, but I can't think of  clearer way of describing this novel.  Since many of MacLean's novels were turned into movies, it surprising this one never made it to the big screen.  Since there's no movie, take my word for it - read the book!  You will not be disappointed.
About the sixth time I have read HMS Ulysses. One of the great war books.
Realistic and gripping.
Good book. Well developed characters and plot. I just wish it could have ended on a happier note. However, having been in a war, one comes to realize bad things happen all too often. This is a good one.
Book as described
Great book
Gotta love this book. Great, quick read - even for adults!
This is definitely a great amount of knowledge in a small pocket sized package! Its about the size of a cassette tape case (if you can remember those lol)  very detailed and easy to navigate.  I highly recommend for a book to keep in your pack or glove box for down time reading or an emergency.
Lots of great Info!!
This is going in my outdoors pack for sure.
Nice in small convenient
I'd give this wee book extra stars if i could. It's jammed so full of information that you almost need a companion guide to get through it. Oh wait, there's an app for that. Really, though, the app is a great companion to the book as it has some videos.  Don't sell yourself short though, if you don't buy the book, you're doing yourself a disservice.
Thumbs up
Super handy
A VERY GOOD READ, LEO WOOD
my all time favorite novel of ww2.
I cannot offer credential to validate this opinion except an unremarkable naval career, but in my opinion, this is the best naval story ever written!  The quality of writing allied with the the underlying desperation of the crew, its captain and the combination of forces that were tackled, produce a superb novel based on an underlying truth.  That all the events that befell Ulysses happened to one ship is improbable, but that they happened to the ships charged with this duty is a matter of probable conjecture.
This is one of my favorite Alistair MacLean novels.  I didn't realize until deep into it that it was also a murder mystery.  I thought it was all about man against the sea.  That action was exciting enough and then, there is a murderer in their midst.
Plan on having enough time to finish the book in one sitting.  After the 4th chapter you are on the ship and involved with the characters.
I found this book to be a gripping tale that captured, without exaggeration, so much that was endured by those men who were involved in the notorious Murmansk convoys of world war II.
I read most of the others but never this very first one.  Cornwell is a wonderful writer of historical fiction.
I love history. I'm also quite fond of good action stories where the lead character takes the kind of abuse normally reserved for Bruce Willis in a Die Hard movie, and yet somehow ends the tale serving tins of smack down to his enemies. Mr Cornwell has managed to combine both historical fact with a fast, fluid, engrossing writing style featuring a captivating lead and a cast of fascinating supporting characters to weave a story that grips the reader from first paragraph to last. An excellent bonus lies in the form of the author's closing notes, where he talks about the actual history that the novel is based upon, where he took liberties with the truth, and where the facts of the events discussed permitted him to weave fiction into fact. It has taken me less than a week to consume the first four Sharpe novels, and has led me to place an order for a new Kindle to that I can get away from hoovering up Mr Cornwell's phenomenal work on my bulky iPad.
GREAT BOOK!
This well-written historical novel introduces the believable hero, Richard Sharpe, who, in this and subsequent novels in the long series, finds himself in key battles in different parts of the world. I appreciated the historical accuracy of battle scenes, the development of the characters and the beautiful prose of the author. Bernard Cornwell is a master story teller. After reading all of the Richard Sharpe novels, I was sad to see the series come to an end.
What a great beginning for the lover of Sean Bean's Sharpe! This is the first book I've read because I wanted to start at the beginning of his story and follow him thru the adventures of the tv series. Now I can "see" Sharpe in the pages. Cornwell writes very well, strong characterization with glorious heroes and dastardly villains, wonderful action sequences, meticulous detail. And I am very glad I don't read with Kindle!  The print copy is perfectly edited and has a map of the scene to look at again and again. Cant wait to read Sharpes Triumph!
This is a great book I read it with my boys for a school book report . I's good for the whole family .
This book is exciting, has vivid characters, and a great message.  It really gets your imagination going.  My children ages 3 to 11 enjoyed listening to us read this, and this is our 3rd time in about 8 years to read this book!  And all 7 books are great to read, although I would save the magicians nephew for last.  My fav in the series is the silver chair.
Great edition of this fabulous classic.
One of my favorite books since I was little and my dad read it to to me. Good for ages 6+.
Very nice. It's a birthday present for my niece. She will love it; I'm sure.
Forgot many details since reading it to our kids;  so re-read it again as a "go to sleep book."  Good introduction to the Narnia series.
A great classic and a wonderful adventure story.  I have read it before but am delighted to have my own copy to share.
Reading it again as an adult opens up a new view of the story. Enjoyed it as a child and enjoying it again as an adult
An amazing classic -- sixty-five years strong! This book needs to be read by every single person who is interested in understanding the sacrifice of Christ on behalf of sinners. It is a wonderful allegory, appropriate for every age.
Fantastic book by a fantastic author
Thrilling and well written saga of man overcoming obstacles and dangers, not just in threes, but in clusters.  Plus a good introduction to a World War II fighting  vessel.
Excellent read.
Great story about an English ship that escorted convoys during World War II.  Great read for those who like naval stories.
Alistair MacLean was a magnificent writer
MacLean's first novel and best job of developing characters - at least male/British sailors and officers, WWII. MacLean actually served on HMS Royalist, a second-flight, Black Prince class (originally Dido class) light cruiser - by some amazing coincidence, nearly identical to the title ship.  Thus there is no chance whatsoever that the author gets anything technically wrong in the novel.  Led me to rest of MacLean canon, notably the 60s "Guns of Navarone," but nothing touches Captain Vallery and his crew as they attempt to escort FR77 to Murmansk.  First read novel in early 60s, from my ex-US Navy father's collection.  Happens to be one of those novels that are readable multiple times.  Curious never made into movie, like "The Cowboy and the Cossack" (C. Huffaker) and "Gray Eagles" (D. Unkeffer)
The sub plots (no pun intended) develop ominously as the story powers on
This is my 5th copy, I give them as gifts. Truly one of the two best sea stories ever written
Historical dramatic tragic semi-fiction. Researched and authentic. It is a fine tribute to the unsung heroes of Murmansk. These men proved the lesson of war to us at such an unbelievable cost and have we learned from their sacrifice?
Fun to read... good book with good info... small and prefect to throw in a bug-out-bag
SSOOOO useful. I know so many things about survival now
Great to carry with you for side reading.  Handy if the Apocalypse happens.
Good resource. Anxious to get out and use it more.
Very informative and compact. Well worth a buy.
Love this little book. Small enough to take anywhere with you. It is filled with invaluable knowledge about making shelter, fire, food, first aid, how to make deadly traps for animals. It teaches us preparedness for the most harsh of all unexpected circumstances. This book  teaches us preparedness for the most harsh of all unexpected circumstances. My teenage son loves it. I am very happy I bought this and I would recommend it.
I usually have a hard time reading books and can take months or years reading them. THIS book I could honestly not put down, even to the point of getting upset when I was interrupted. It is extraordinarily well written and keeps you on the edge of your seat until the very end. Sgt Hakeswill is definitely on par with Joffrey Baratheon as far as fictional characters you can't wait to die.
Like the way historical situations are recorded.  Also impressed with how the author helped Sharp to worm his way out of seemingly impossible negative situations.
Arrived early, and my husband loves these books.
Im giving it 5 stars because Bernard Cornwell's story deserves that rating. However, whover edited the ebook version needs to be sacked. Theres a typo on every page, almost makes it hard to read. Staying is almost always staving, Mary becomes Many, the list goes on. Its like they outsourced the editing to the country the book is set in.
A rollicking adventure yarn. The pages turn effortlessly as we race to the conclusion. A fun hero and despicable villains.
I own them all- love the whole Richard Sharpe series. Good historical fiction. Cornwell is meticulous in his research. Wish I could be standing right beside him when he visits the sites.
Reading the Sharpe series for the second time in five years. Can't get enough.
Bernard Cornwell is my favorite author. Thank God he's so prolific. Richard Sharpe might have ruined it for the USA if he'd been around in the 1770's.
Alistair MacLean, besides spinning a tale that makes you feel right there, has a masterful grasp of the English language along with painstaking detail describing ships, planes or whatever he is writing about.  You can identify with the characters as they are quite unique, and in some cases, almost unforgettable. I have read almost all of his books, and this was third reading of this one.
This novel has to rank as one of the best explanations of the terror that faced the British Navy during supply runs to Russia during WWII. In graphic detail MacLean describes the tension, the carnage, the brutal cold, and the huge seas that defined the Murmansk runs through the North Sea. This is a brutally honest book that is not for the faint-hearted.
great read but needs to be read slowly to get the full gist of the story
I first read this book as a teenager many years ago, and purchased the e-book recently.  It is still a very impressive novel!
A graphic account of the horrors of navel warfare in the Arctic Ocean and the heroic actions of the British navy and merchant marine MacLean is one of the very best in describing the minute to minute actions in combat.
Not unlike Bomber in demonstrating heroism and futility of war
Book was on time. Also in great shape. My son loves it.
Still as good as when it was written
This portable resource is the perfect addition to your car first aid kit or your backpack.  The organization of the guide is very well done, the paper is much better than normal and a lot stronger, the picture references are helpful (identifying plants for example), and the book is pocket size.  What I also really enjoyed is that the guide reads like a book.  The examples are factual, real events, and the advice is evidence based.  If I am stranded anywhere, I want this guide in my pocket.
Great product, shipped fast, will buy again!!
This is by far the best survival book available. The content is extremely practical and tested. It is artfully written as well.
Great book to have.
There is a reason so many people have bought this guide, it is very thorough on all kinds of topics just about anything imaginable. I have several survival guides on specific areas, for instance desert survival or survival at sea, and this book covers the most important information needed without much sacrifice. I am impressed by the wide range of crucial information stuffed in a pocket size guide and the amount of clear illustrations. This is perfect for any day pack or vehicle and is a great confidence booster if ever needed. Most survival experts respect and suggest this guide as a legitimate must read, I think that speaks for itself. As I have expanded my reading into survival and disaster guides, I have certainly noticed that many share the same  information and ideas. This guide is some of the most condensed and useful information available and being one of the most popular is good in that it helps standardize the best and most accepted knowledge in this field.
I like the size to carry with me in backpack and give a good guide on situations
Cornwall weaves an excellent tail. Historically accurate with characters as compelling as any to be found on television or on screen
Good read.
Bernard Cornwell introduces readers to a very young Richard Sharpe, not the officer as seen on PBS, but a young rascal born to take advantage of opportunities found on the battlefield. Set in India in the waning moments of the 18th century Sharpe gets flogged after being set up by an odious Obadiah Hakeswill, before being sent off on a dangerous mission into the Mysore of Tippoo Sultan
Excellent story telling that leaves you wondering how Sharpe will get of trouble the next time.
Great book. Easy to read but gives you the feeling of being there with Sharpe.
Terrific! Richard Sharpe is a wonderful character, and as always he is well written. In this case, because so many books in the series that were written earlier have later historical time frames, Mr. Cornwell had to actually devolve the character to a less mature state. It's well done and adds a lot of perspective to the later stories that were written earlier.
Fantastic! Michael York is tremendous, reads every word in this unabridged set, and develops a specific voice for each character. The CD divisions line up perfectly with the book's chapters. Excellent teaching tool.
This book is a wonderful addition to my 4th grade classroom library.  We studied The Chronicles of Narnia series this year and used the picture book as a compare and contrast activity.
I gave this to my grandma as a gift and she loved it!
This amazing piece of literary perfection has been, and always will be, a favored door to a place deep inside, that tickles the imagination  and stirs wonder.  I love each and every page.
Great book and series
Sad story, wonderfully written
Excellent!  A swashbuckling, ripping good yarn about the Murmansk run through ice cold water, Stukas, U-Boats, and German battleships.  I haven't served int he armed forces, and this book really resonates with all the good qualities of men in a high pressure environment.  Most perform beyond themselves, but, as is inevitable, some crack.  An excellent book!
A Classic
A classic & the best of MacLean's books.
Eo I know the waters of the Denmark Streight, having sailed them as a young man, trawling from Hull
amazing description of the Arctic convoys and a good story line.
I have been reading Alistair McLean novels for 40 years.  Obviously with a few years between readings.  I hadn't read HMS Ulysses for many years so the reread was a feast of action and superb use of descriptive writing.  His books don't 'age' and dare I say, highlight the differences in writing standards.
Maclean's books are all pretty much fantastic.  This particular one will give you chills in the middle of the summer his descriptions of the North Sea in the winter are so vivid.  A real tale of heroism and horror during WWII.  So poignant at times it is hard to keep going but it is worth every second!
If you are older like we are here, you may want to pirchase magnifying glasses too. The book contains useful information especially regarding foof, but is real small. Then again the size may be good because in a case of disaster you would not want a bog book.
Perfect size for my hubby to take in his hiking backpack
Fits nicely in my bug out bag.
packed with info
Extremely well written, easy to understand and VERY informative. The information contained in this book is nothing short of PRICELESS!  If I can't be in Lofty's entourage when the SHTF, then I'll settle for this amazing book.
Sharpe is a private in his majesty's army who is tasked with the seemingly impossible -- getting behind enemy lines to find out the information from a captured spy master.  Sharpe is the perfect hero.  He is a bit bad, so he doesn't annoy you with his perfectness.  He is funny, complicated and takes the reader on adventures that have them gasping to see what happens next.  The writing is vivid and really makes you feel like you are right in the middle of the battle.  Its a great introduction to a character readers will fall in love with.  I can't wait to pick up the next Sharpe book.
Great read
Ideal for the beach or pool side
outstanding book!
One of the most impressive stories from World War II . . . as you cross the north Atlantic in convoy with them, you  FEEL the icy cold, the fatigue, the fear, the anger, the desperation and the heroic patriotism of all the characters.  I chose to reread it as my Memorial Day recognition, and it moved me even more now than it did 40 years ago.
Great Book.  A re-read from years ago
Written by a man who served in the Royal Navy in WWII, this novel comes as close to anything I have ever read to describing the horrors of the convoys to northern Russia.  Unimaginable weather and constant attacks from U boats and German bombers meant almost certain death for the men who made "The Run."
An authentic story of modern naval warfare encompassing all of the horrors, tragedies, mishaps, personal failings, ignorance, brilliance, courage, heroics, and honor that could be fit into a single mission.
Anyone who has never been exposed to Alistair Maclean is missing one of the very best story tellers of all time.  I've been reading him since I was 10 and his works are still exciting and carefully crafted skin-tingling foreshadowing in all of his books, which are not Tom Clancy monsters.  All you need to know if you're a movie lover is the following: "The Guns of Navarone", "Force 10 from Navarone", Ice Station Zebra", Where Eagles Dare" Fear Is The Key", and ones that should have been such as "Night Without End", and the best he's ever written and one of the greatest military thrillers I've read "H.M.S. Ulysses".  Do yourself a favor and lie back and start with "H.M.S. Ulysses".
Excellent WW2 Story based on real life experience.
A truly great book about one of the worst duties of WWII.  The Murmansk convoys were a frozen hell, and MacLean has ably portrayed Richard Valery and his valiant ship.
Loved this childhood classic!
Wonderful book.
it's perfect
The Narina books were my favorite series as a child. I read them over and over, though this one was of course the one I read the most. This is my first time rereading them as an adult.  It's a quick read that took me less than a day to finish. I'll probably switch these to the boxes set so that it doesn't feel like cheating on my reading challenge.  The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe is a wonderful and charming children's book. While today's children may not understand some of the British words used in the book set during WWII, they're easy enough to figure out by context.  What I feel makes it hold up after so long, is that it's just detailed enough to grab your attention, but not so bogged down with details that you forget where the story is going. Most books that have movies made of them are so abridged that it almost ruins them. But this book only takes about twice as long to read as it takes to watch the movie. From what I remember of the movie (though it has been a few years since I've seen it) it lines up pretty well with the book.  Definitely a book I'll read again someday.
The Lion, the Witch, and Her Wardrobe (i.e. men's clothes.) 100 years of winter.  100 years of war (England and France). Prophecy of 4 children saving Narnia. Prophecy of a child maiden from Lorraine (Joan of Arc) saving France from the English. Is this film/story perhaps C.S. Lewis way of making England (King Henry VI) the victors of the 100 years war   instead of France (King Charles VII, Joan of Arc)? King Charles VII betrayed Joan of Arc. Dolly Daydream(i.e. Edmund) betrayed Peter, Lucy, and Susan. Joan of Arc was martyred (burned at the stake).  Aslan the Lion was martyred (pierced upon the stone table). At Orleans, Joan died, and came back to life, after having taken a English arrow deep into her chest, which she pulled out herself.
Loved it!
The pictures were just right. Not too many to impede the imagination, but enough to keep the kiddos wanting more.
Everyone should keep this book, especially with the looming zombie apocalypse.
Richt in to my survival pack it went
Great book, would like to find a full size!
Reads like a survival manual
Useful book to throw in your pack or to have in the glove box.
If you only buy one bug out guide this is it. It's the perfect size for a backpack and is full info for the price!
Very nice well laid out book but its full of common sense information every hiker should know but it's not a bad thing to have. But its an excellent book even made from strong paper should last forever unless your reading in the shower . I was just wanting something new to learn . I like it thank you
As described and expected, no problems! Bought it as a gift.
My first Sharpe's adventure. Splendid
I enjoy historical fiction so I enjoyed it.
Bernard Cornwell has written some great books (and his really early ones from the 80s with sailing themes are fantastic as well).  But I have no more favorite than the Sharpe series.  This is a "prequel" of sorts, written after several of the series, that takes us back to Sharpe as a mere private, and his first "real" adventure.  So, if you want to start, start with this one.  Great prose: polished, flowing and totally immersive - truly the work of a pro.  I'm re-reading the whole Sharpe series (and this time, with Kindles's handy dictionary, understanding far more of the military and fortification terms, for andeven more enlightened experience).
if you liked the teleivison  show you must buy this book it makes the show much more  believable and enjoyable
Before you get started on this great series be sure to download the series list.  These books are better read in their historical chronological order, which has nothing to do with when they were first published!  Example: Tiger, the earliest record of Sharpe's history was published in 1997 whereas Eagle, the 8th book in the series was published in 1981.  Its a minor issue but best know about it before you read a spoiler ahead of time.  The other fantastic thing about this series is the author's use of a short historical background section at the back of most of the novels that outlines the factual historical events and characters that have been incorporated into the tales.  He does this in many of his other series as well.  In most cases, while Sharpe if a figment of imagination, the events and places he is placed in are real life.
I regard it as the greatest book Alistair MacLean hasitten
A story of redemption against all odds.  Written with hard-hitting prose, this story reads like it really happened.  MacLean could only have written this through first hand experience. I think this is his best
A classic read.
I spent a little time in the north Atlantic How real it was to me and the strength of men.
nice read take a while to really take a hold of you
This was a gift for our son, a retired Navy Captain, who is writing a Navy action novel.  I read this book many years ago and yet still remembered the authour's  vivid descriptions of the weather in the North Sea and of general life on the ships, to introduce him to how a brilliant writer can picture up life on board ships at war.
It is a story detailing a fairly forgotten portion of WWII.  I don't really go for the phrase "an instant classic." This novel has been out for long enough to really be a classic.
Good information
Purchased this to add to a preppers stash for my parents who are building a house in hurricane alley. Can never be too safe...
i needed this in go bag great info filled
awesome book. Ordered for a few people for Christmas. Informative, full of easily digestible information, useful survival tips and knowledge that is applicable across many realistic situations. Great purchase.
Great guide in a pocket size
Very handy book keep in my car all the time
This is a neat little book that goes over A LOT of stuff. This is a must have for any hiker/camper/prepper/homesteader and so on. Take it with you on any trips or put it in your bug out bag!
This has got EVERYTHING in it.  If you're a survival noob like I am, you'll learn so much from this book.  I highly recommend it!
Gift for my husband.  He loves it.  And it's the perfect pocket size to carry around anywhere.
my granddaughter love it
I loved this book I loved this book I loved this book a lot I would recommend it to anyone I loved it
C.s.lewis is an inspiration to young and old. I love these stories and am excited to share them with my children.
I love this book; read it to the kids (5 & 9 yrs) as soon as it arrived, and they both loved it too. Yes, it's an adaptation and shortened and not written the way C.S. Lewis wrote the book (and there are some interesting things Lucy says that she never said in the original book or film version), but the pictures are beautiful and it captures more or less the gist of the story -- four children tumble through a magic wardrobe into Narnia to help Aslan fight the White Witch. When my kids are older, I'll read them the original, much longer C.S. Lewis story which is of course far superior, but for a picture book, this is wonderful for young children to learn the story.
This might be for ages 8 and up. But there is also a deeper meaning for adults. One of my favorite books ever.
A marvelous tale and well told that should be required reading for all those of high school age. It puts sacrifice and suffering of one generation into proper perspective.
Maclean's best. Great story, beginning  to  end.
most descriptive book i have ever read, i am still cold, and i may never thaw out.
Great book...nice condition
If you have a pre teen son who is thinking about a naval career - this is it, one of the most compelling novels a must read for cadets everywhere
sad but a must read. a tribute to the human spirit and the good within all of us.
Awesome
HMS Ulysses is like a top-rate adventure movie between covers! Harrowing stuff, but utterly unputdownable. If you like WW II sea adventure, this one is not to be missed!
This is a brilliantly written, very atmospheric and deeply touching classic WW2 naval battle novel in the same league as Nicholas Montserrat's Cruel Sea.
top notch pocket reference for personal suvival
Great if you are just begining to learn about Prepping.
Great addition to my BOB
This book is so comprehensive and informative!
Excellent for on the trail
Awesome pocket sized survival guide to give you the basic know-how of staying alive. Great pictures to explain everything too. I would say the knowledge in this book is pretty extensive for it being an unspecified region and climate type. Usually when you get a survival book, it's based on where you are taking a trip or where you live, but after reading through it, I've found TONS of very practical knowledge that would be applicable from the Grand Canyon to Yosemite. Great book to keep with you in your pack or edc bag. The author has clearly mastered the art of survival and put together a very thorough generalized compilation of all your essential needs.
My husband loves this book
I purchased this book as a gift for my husband and he loved it! He said it was everything he was looking for. Several friends got the ordering info as well. They were all impressed with this book.
I found this book very exciting and readable and full of interesting historical detail and facts. The only drawback is the huge number of typos but sadly this seems to be the norm nowadays, as editing and proof-reading standards have gone to the dogs. As one of the book's best characters, Sergeant Hakeswill, would no doubt say, ' a book should be free of errors, so it should, it says so in the scriptures!'
Excellent adventure novel about early conquests in India by Britian.  Recommend the whole series to asnyone that desires to understand early British conquest of India.
Mr Cornwell writes historical fiction like no other. I've read the series in the past, but it's one of those you can go back to and reread with the same enjoyment as the first time. Although Sharpe seems able to dodge bullets with the best heros, I guess it would make for a short series if he was killed in the story's first volley. The book itself takes place in India in 1799, with Sharpe a private in the British army. The series itself spans the Napoleonic era, describing the world through this soldier's eyes in vivid detail.
My library was missing Sharpes Tiger, so we read it & donated. To anyone having not begun reading Cornwell, I envy you the adventure. Alas, I've only Sharpe's Christmas left to read. It is as if my companion had said he was leaving me.
The Sharpe's Series is wonderful, I have seen the TV series which I truly enjoyed,  I just had to read the books, this Sharpe's Tiger was fantastic & explains more than the TV series, I love the history & how Sharpe rose from a lowly enlisted man to a Major. Bernard Cornwell really keeps you enthralled he is an excellent novelist.  I recommend this book to anyone one Male or Female who enjoy military stories of yesteryear.
I bought this book for my son. I've read most of the series several years ago, and my 15-year-old is an avid reader. So I suggested this series to him. He ate it up. Now I'll have to pony up for the rest of them.
I'm more of a nonfiction man, to be honest, and it's so difficult for me to get interested in fiction because most fiction authors bore me to tears, or their fiction is simply not plausible. Bernard Cornwell is one of the few fiction authors I'll touch, and he's a master. Anything he touches turns to gold.
Great series
Loved the book and the movie...i gave it 5 stars because i never put the book down or got bored reading. I would love to read all of the books...seems very interesting n captivating...worth the buy.
We love this book and it is the perfect intro for my 3 and 5 year old boys who now can't wait to read more C.S. Lewis.
When I was a young child, my father read this book to me. When I was an older child, I read this book myself. When I was a teen-ager, I read this book to my younger brother. Now, I give this book to my friends who have young children. I think that reading this book to children when they are about 7-years-old, or as young as five, or as old as ten, is an important part of raising a child well.
Timeless classic.
I absolutely love all the books in the Narnia series! They are all excellently written and have beautiful story lines.
This was my favorite book when I was a child..Cute illustrations and wonderful story!
Excellent book!!
Apart from the beautiful illustrations and classic hardcover, the way that CS Lewis creatively displays the problem of man's sinfulness, the person of Satan, the doctrine of salvation, the reality of Christ's life, death, and resurrection, the character and innocence of believers was absolutely spectacular! Wonderful read for those looking for a brilliant allegory of reality, God, and the Christian life.
Great Story
Excellent read! HMS Ulysses tells a tale very much like Nicholas Monsarrat's "The Cruel Sea."  "Ulysses" however, is much more visceral in that Maclean's highly descriptive narrative of the battle against the enemy and nature puts the reader on deck in a manner that "Cruel Sea strives to match, but cannot. The latter is still an excellent read, but Maclean's draws you in on a far more  emotional level. Maclean is a master storyteller.
One of the best WWII books ever by one of my favorite writers. Great purchasing experience;  well packaged and fast shipping.  Many thanks.
A great story of the pain and suffering of war.  In my opinion, MacLean's best work.
Great adventure story, keeps your interest. As with all his books, it is more about the story and less about the people in the story. They just play their part to move the plot along. You never learn very much about each person.
I love Forester, O'Brien, Kent, and Pope, all supremely gifted writers, but they never wrote anything with the emotional impact of this book. It packs an emotional wallop unlike any other wartime sea saga. It engages every feeling imaginable in a reader; fear, excitement, suspense, anger, pathos, and great sadness. It is far more than a superb tale of men against the sea and human enemies, it is a story of all that men are capable of, noble and ignoble, under great pressure and impossible circumstances. The ship itself is a character in the book and you come to see it as almost human. MacLean writes with authority and expertise on technical aspects because he served in ships similar to Ulysses, but it is the characters of the crew that engage the attention of the reader. You feel you know these men and truly care about their fates. The writing is smooth and assured, amazing that this was MacLean's first book, but it makes you uncomfortable as you feel the slashing seas, awful weather of the Arctic, and the cries of men dying suddenly, unexpectedly. This is war as real sailors saw it, without a trace of glory and the only nobility being ordinary men rising to extraordinary heights as circumstances steadily worsen.  So many sea stories are written essentially for grown up children. This one is for adults.
Hubby is still reading but he loves it
pocket size and detailed.
Great size for a bugout bag, which is what I bought three of them for. (One each for the wife & kids!)
Book is small 5" long is cramped full of information  .delivery  slow
Another great book. This was for our son-in-law. He was thrilled
a must have in your library... You never know!  If you found this review helpful, please click "Yes" below. Your vote is greatly appreciated.
Exactly what you think it is.
Excellent story. I loved the series and love the books. It was a compelling read that I could not put down
Like many novels, my interest grew as the story advanced. The author is able to reveal a dark side, an evil in men that is so sinister as to give a reader a tremble.  And there are not just a few of these evil types that churn up in Cornwell's Sharpe novels. Perhaps the character development of the delightful and good natured types that are "done dirt" by the evil characters spurn greater interest in these novels.  Our hero is not always able to overcome the odds.  He doesn't always come out on top.  But one gains a great respect for Private Sharpe, flawed hero that he is, not just because of his survival skills but his sense of street justice.  Of course, this book also informs us of real history.  It is based upon real events.  Cornwell is so successful at placing the reader in the shoes of the private in the Royal Army that one truly senses the emotions, the smells and sights of the soldier.  The tale provides twists and turns of a good plot as well.  Anyone that loves history will enjoy this one!
Fast paced tale,non-stop action. Puts the reader in the thick of the action. Makes modern warfare seem somehow tame. Highly recommended.
Second reading of Sharps series.  This is a great way to learn history.  Stories are fast paced and exciting.  Love the historical facts at end of each book.
Bernard Cornwell's best series.  Richard Sharpe is such an amazing character.  I won't give away the story here but I WILL give you the chronological order of the books:  Sharpe's Tiger Sharpe's Triumph Sharpe's Fortress Sharpe's Trafalgar Sharpe's Prey Sharpe's Rifles Sharpe's Havoc Sharpe's Eagle Sharpe's Gold Sharpe's Escape Sharpe's Fury Sharpe's Battle Sharpe's Company Sharpe's Sword Sharpe's Skirmish Sharpe's Enemy Sharpe's Honour Sharpe's Regiment Sharpe's Christmas Sharpe's Siege Sharpe's Revenge Sharpe's Waterloo Sharpe's Devil
This is one book in a great series. Takes place early in the protagonist's (Sharp) army career in India during a key siege and assault  that made the career of the future Duke of Wellington. I have read the whole series but was in India and had a chance to visit the fortress of Seringapatam where this book takes place so I bought it again on my Kindle and reread it prior to my visit. This assault led to one of the great treasure mysteries of history - what happened to the great jewels of Sultan Tippoo?  Even in the last few months treasure hunters were following the advise of an Indian guru to excavate a site he saw in his dreams. Rea this book and see if Sharp knows the secret.
I have read this as a "real" book at least three times before putting it on my iPad. I am now iReading it again and will probably get the whole Sharpe series.
Love this book and the entire Sharpe series.  Bernard Cornwell does historical fiction better than anyone.  The Sharpe character is easy to like and to root for.  The richness of the battle descriptions and the thoroughness of the historical detail are greatly appreciated.  Anyone who loves this genre will love the entire Sharpe series.  If you are new to Sharpe it is my opinion that they are better read in story order instead of the chronological order of their publishing.  Check out the Cornwell website for the story order.
This has everything you would need to know to survive in the wilderness or during a disaster and then some! You can't go wrong with this survival guide. I'm going to order more for all my loved ones! Very happy!!!
I bought 2 of these so far. This book is amazing. Tons of information in the palm of your hand. The printing is very high quality and the pages don't feel cheap.
Very informative & handy.
Full of just in case info and easy to keep with you in a bob bag.
Good Book to Have. It's really small!!!! Fits in bailout bag good. Has a lot of useful info.
Just finished this book with my boys, ages 7 and 10. It was a perfect fit--an entertaining, poignant and superbly crafted story.
It was an Awesome book, I can't wait to read the whole series!!!
Brand new and the boys are excited to start the story.  4 CDs included!!!!
What a wonderful story and adventure! I can certainly see why they would make a movie series out of these books. Looking forward to reding the rest of C. S. Lewis' books.
Great book!
*****SPOILERS READ AT YOUR OWN PERIL*****  It is difficult not to rate the book anything other than 5 star.   Character development: Freebie   World building: Freebie, really I don't believe any explanation necessary for this one. Its Narnia!   Ease of read: Since the book was written for someone who is young, you can assume the reading level is quite easy. It was also a page turner.   Plot twist: Difficult to gage, since I was reading it for the second time, I had already known what the book was about, not to mention all the movies that were filmed for this series of books. But if I try to imagine that I were reading it for the first time, it would not be difficult to see how I would be surprised.   Lasting impression: When I last read this series I was 7, turning 8. My mother read it to me as a bedtime story, and as I did with most of the books I read with my parents when I was younger, I proceeded to read the rest of the books within the series because they were not reading them fast enough, and the only person that would be able to control the speed in which I read was me. I remember liking the books, and I have fond memories surrounding them. Now I am 27, re-reading the books after 20 years. Those feelings that I had when I was a child still exist, and the wonder I felt when I was first introduced to Narnia when I was a child still remains.
Love this story now, as much as I did as a kid. When I read these, this was the first book. I'm not sure why it was moved to #2. In any order, the story of the Sons of Adam and the Daughters of Eve is magical. With The Magician's Nephew first, however, I feel that it might take away some of the mystery of the lamppost, the Witch, and even the professor. What do they teach them in these schools?
This book was hard to put down.  Bernard Cornwell's Sharpe's series are engaging and draw the reader into the experience and history of these books.  Will try to read through the complete series.
I've read several books in this series and just love them.  I find them exciting, the character Sharpe flinty and iconoclastic and the stories are great fun.  They provide a seemingly realistic insight into the English army and the war making of that period.
What can you say about Cornwell's works on Sharpe. Action, adventure, intrique, evil characters, sexy women, its got it all! It also fills in some questions readers might have in his older books about Sharpe in India.
I picked up this book on a whim and was introduced to an outstanding author, resulting in me tearing through the next two books in the series in less than two weeks. Mr Cornwell crafts an amazing story that is not only fast-paced and leaves you turning pages late into the evening, but also manages to provide little snippets of historical insight along the way.  I love history anyway, but the little bit of history these stories provide is just enough to set the tone without overburdening the story and dragging it down. I absolutely love his writing style and and will continue to read all his books.
This is a great story about India during the early days of British colonial rule when France had designs on India as well.  I couldn't put it down once I started reading it.
I have done business with dealer before and as usual they did not disappoint me in any way.  Great dealer, great price, etc.
My first Alistair Maclean book. What a book. Great story, great character development. I think I'll try another Maclean book.
What a glorious end to a great ship and wonderful crew.  Alistair Maclean masterfully mixes the glories of warfare with the utter waste and senselessness of such conflicts.
Alistair MacLean at his very best, what more can I say. I could not put it down until I finished it at 4am
C.S. Forester has always been one of my favorite authors.  This book was ordered 23 August and delivered within 5 days.  It is like new.  Due to the decline of libraries it is harder to find older books to read.
A staggeringly good book that has stood the test of time. I bought this in 1973 and regularly re-read it. The quality of the writing , measured by its flow and and the atmosphere/images it generates, jumps at you from the very first page with the meeting and showdown in Scapa Flow.  The characters are very well drawn, even Commander Orr whom we meet in person for just a few seconds but one empathises with him from the descriptions of his actions and his signals throughout the book. One image that will remain with me is of the Stirling in the last quarter of the book. Why/how can I become so emotional about what normally would seem to be an inanimate object? It can only be due to the quality of the writing.  There's been discussion about making a film. The time to do that was several decades ago, dare one say when the world was filmed in black and white. My suggestion is to read this book then watch 'The Cruel Sea'. I can't imagine the present generation of 'Hollywood' actors conveying the stresses and resolve of Alistair Maclean's characters and we certainly do not need whiz-bang CGI special effects. This is a book about gritty determination and strength of character; those of us who have never served in the Armed Forces should learn a lot of life's lessions from it.
I've always been a great fan of Alistair McLean books, with this being one of his best.  I love the classy look of these Heron Editions, and would highly recommend them!
I would rate this higher if I could. There aren't, in my opinion enough superlatives to do this stirring Naval story justice. It's the story of the heroic H.M.S Ulysses and her crew who are ordered to undertake the escort of a convoy to Russia across the merciless and dangerous North Atlantic. For a crew that is at the end of it's tether after months of battle, it's almost beyond belief.  It's a story of survival, for both the Ulysses and her crew against insurmountable odds. A story of men who have been pushed beyond their mental, emotional and physical limits, who don't at first realise that they will be called upon to give even more.  It's a journey fraught with difficulty, battle against enemy air attack, roving U-Boats harrying the convoy at every opportunity. Then there is the harsh and unrelenting environment, cold inducing frostbite, angry seas, freak waves, unrelenting storms, exhaustion.  The writing is descriptive, you can almost feel yourself aboard the rolling, ice encrusted decks of the Ulysses. There is a wonderful cross section of characters who are well fleshed out. It's a stirring, heroic story that will stay in a reader's mind.
MacLean's account of the desperate fate of a wartime convoy to Russia is his magnum opus. A detailed study of the human condition in the most extreme circumstances imaginable.  Puts modern day complaints about hardship into stark perspective.  Everyone should read this to understand the generation who fought in WW2.
Quite simply one of the best men-at-war novels ever written. Right up there with 'Fields of Fire', 'Up Front'  and 'Once an Eagle'. Why this simple yet compelling little novel doesn't get the recognition it deserves is beyond me.  Read it, and keep it close by because it is a fine, fine book.....
At first I found reallyhard to follow this book, since there were many specific terms of the naval language (English is not my native language). However, the adventures and the endurance of the crew really made the book fascinating and emotionally intriguing. The non happy ending is another peculiar feature of the book. I really enjoyed reading the book and I would recommend it to anyone.
Pack so much useful knowledge into such a small book. Helpful for wherever you live or wherever you maybe. The information is worth way more than the few dollars I paid for the book.
Excellent book! This has just about anything you can think of for everyday survival situations.
Amazing book, bery professional writer
Good book to read, and have for all survival situations!
Thank you... This is an excellent publication.... Fast delivery and packing was supreme, again thank you.
Love it!
Good Book
Very comprehensive.
Excellent introduction to the outstanding Sharpe series. I wish I had read it first. As it was, I started this series with "Sharpe's Rifles" and read the next 9 or 10 in order. No problem. They worked well that way.  However, this book does set the scene for the remainder of the series and answers a few questions that I was happy to have answered.  Regarding this book, it was well written and definitely kept my interest.  The characters are skillfully developed , the story line makes sense and there is plenty of action.  Without a question, this is one of my all time favorite series.  Surprisingly, there were quite a few proofing issues, but they were minor and didn't unduly distract from my enjoyment of this fine book.  Highly recommended.
Cornwell writes the best historical fiction.  Sharpe (the main character) is the James Bond of the early 1800's, no special weapons or gadgets but what a fighter, leader, and ladies man !
I've been a Sharpe fan for years and am really enjoying the India series as well as the journey home in Sharpe's Trafalgar. However, the editing in the Kindle editions leaves much to be desired, with one godawful mistake after another in sections of every one of the books. The mistakes range from typos to using the wrong word. I have no clue how a book goes from printed form to Kindle, but there's a ghost in the machine somewhere.
The first book in the Sharpe series. You will not beable to put this book down! If you read this book you will get hooked on the series.
A lot of fun!!  History and fiction in a fast paced adventure.  Not for wimps.  I would reccomend Sharpe's Tiger to readers of all ages.
If theres one thing I  love about this book is that its so intense and magical and so fantastic and awesome give me a good word  and that  is  what it  is .
I finally read this book and it was amazing!!! Great adventures for both young and old. I'm 37 and I read it to my 4 year old daughter.
C.S. Lewis described his Narnia Chronicles series as a "supposal" to Tolkien. This The book gives children insight into the Biblical historical Jesus, by showing what would happen if He entered a different world as one of the beasts He came to save. Wonderful insights into God's Love.
Good
I was a huge fan of the movie when I was a child, and now that I am just getting around to reading the series I am pleased to say that they exceed all expectations. I listened to the audiobook which was very well read and did a great job at making the book come to life. The characters are developed, even for such a short book, and the story was fantastic. I highly recommend this book and series to everyone.
Best quotes from Narnia!!  I received the Chronicles of Narnia for Christmas from my daughter, having worn out our old set reading them over and over to our four kids. So, I thought I'd do The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly book reviews on these, some of my favorite books.  The Good Quote: "Is--is he a man?" asked Lucy.  "Aslan a man!" said Mr. Beaver sternly. "Certainly not. . . Aslan is a lion--the Lion, the great Lion."  "Ooh!" said Susan, "I'd thought he was a man. Is he--quite safe?" . . .  "Safe?" said Mr. Beaver; "don't you hear what Mrs. Beaver tells you? Who said anything about safe? 'Course he isn't safe. But he's good. He's the King, I tell you."  The Bad: This is CS Lewis. He doesn't write bad. But I bet he was lousy at auto-mechanics. And that makes me feel good. A man shouldn't be good at everything.  The Ugly: Turkish Delight. Immediately addictive chocolate. That's flat evil.  danielcooley.com
Beautifully written I felt it was real
Probably one of the best ever WWII naval novels. The writing made you feel you were part of the crew, living with characters like Valerie and the Kapok Kid. Not only the crew but you felt you were part of the ship and all that happened to her. A book you couldn't put down nor one you wanted to put down.
I just re-read HMS Ulysses after about a 30 year hiatus. I don't think anyone has capture the desolate, cold and terror-filled  world of the Arctic Convoy run from Halifax to Archangel, like MacLean. It is a classic, unforgetable photograph of a brief period in history when men with undaunting courage, loyalty and almost superhuman endurance, put their lives at risk in unparalled sacrifice.
It is great that these classics are now accessible on kindle - they provide a great opportunity to celebrate the best of old writers
was in the navy when i frist read this book i still remember it to day thats why i wanted iin my home
The story line is superb along with the skill in writing makes it a book I could not put down. From the very first chapter you are gripped in the story, its almost as if you are there watching it all take place.  As for the Kindle Fire, well I have not had anything quite like it before so its a complete new experience.  Without a doubt it is superb. I shall have to get the cover for it as it can feel very smooth and I would hate to drop it!!  What a clever little tool.  It has everything that I had wanted plus more  It keeps on surprising me  Thank you Rob
One of this author's best books.  I have read the book three times in the last fifty years and each time the appalling conditions suffered by men on warships and merchantmen alike jumps out of the page.  The conditions and tactics experienced by all the men involved are superbly drawn by MacLean.  One of my very favourite naval books.
I was discussing Royal Navy history with a British friend who was recommending a number of books about the topic, and I recalled reading MacLean's HMS Ulysses perhap five times as a teenager 35 years ago. He had never heard of the book, though he was familiar with the author.  I commended the title to him, and have since re-read it myself. It remains one of the most fraught and depressing, but extraordinarily compelling, novels of naval warfare I've read. MacLean's character development - like the detail and minutiae of the wartime nautical world on the Murmansk run - is intense and complete, even as the characters die from the myriad perils that surround them.  This is an epic story of men's ability to endure, the indifference of the sea and the weather, and the stark cruellty of war.
Much more than a book or eight pocket pamphlet this book is nearly an inch thick and there is vast quantities of information I would probably have to have a coffee table book the size of a small towns phonebook to accommodate this amount of information one full-size version.  Somebody was  thorough :-)
Some people say it's hard to read but if you read the descriptions you will see that it says pocket size So yes the print will be small If you are looking for the full size this is not it  I love this little book It fits well in my back pack
Interesting little book, great to keep in a go bag.
Hey, this is a great little book, and I do mean little.  It is 3 1/4" wide, 4 1/2" tall, and 3/4" thick, so it is a perfect size to throw in your backpack, BOB, or hunting gear.  It is packed with a lot of good information, and to help identify plants, snakes, fish, etc. it has color pictures.  I am a former US Marine and have been a "survivalist" or "prepper" for many years, and I am glad to include this little gem in my gear.
Very comprehensive, and in a small package. Learning a lot regarding survival issues.
Hah, i was surprised by the size of the book, but after i got it, was happy it's this small size.  It's dinky like 4" tall by 1" thick by 3".  It's perfect to pack into my emergency pack.  Of course this is for extreme scenarios,  but it covers all of the basics.  For example starting with what type of gear you should have.  For example, knife selection to condoms for storing water.  The book has survival techniques in different situations/climates. Signaling, water and survival foods,  poisonous snakes, fish,  and just all the survival craft, building shelters, hunting/fishing, and medical procedures.  It's really a great little book, and probably has a lot of great information for those unexpected emergencies.
This is a huge help in feeling like i'm prepared for whatever may come, be it the zombie apocalypse, or just an extended weekend of camping. This is everything I'd have wanted my hunter, gatherer, survivalist grandfather to have passed down to me from his life of expertise, had he existed as such.
Bernard Cornwell grasp of historical fiction amazes me every time. I look forward to every new book I pick up.
Read the whole series in print; I love it enough to reread it on Kindle;  Good fictionalized characters in Napoleonic wars; realistic characters; historical background of excellent quality;;
Historically accurate, heart pounding, never-let-upp-the-action plots, great characters. Any fan of historical fiction should read the Sharpe series. Highly recommended.
This story just had me wrapped up in the time period.  I could not put it down.  Very exciting.  Sharpe is a rogue to admire.
This book is a great introduction to the Sharpe series by Bernard Cromwell.  The attention to detail, especially the battle scenes make this book the best one to start with.  As Richard Sharpe makes his way through the beginnings of the India campaign in 1797, his life as a private in the British Army makes him unsure of himself.  Above all things, he wants to be a sergeant to make his life a little easier.  But things conspire both for and against him.  Obadiah Hakeswill has to be one of the worst villains ever to grace the pages of fiction.  A great read!
I've read several of Alistair Macleans books, seen the movies of his famous "Guns of Navarone","Ice Station Zebra" and the others but I'd never come across this, his first novel. Thought it would be interesting, as my father had been in the Royal Navy during WWII and did North Atlantic Convoy runs, similar but not quite as cold as the Artic Convoys described in HMS Ulysses to supply Russia with much needed medical and military armaments. From the very begining of the book to the end it was gripping, I devoured it. The constant tension, hardship and vigilence, the weakness and courage of each character was awesome, not a word I frequently use but this story is awesome. We follow the H.M.S.Ulysses on her last Artic Convoy, before promised deployment in the Mediterranean. Nothing goes as planned despite the senior officers capabilities. The unrelenting cold, poor nutrition, disease and psychological stress just keep on coming. The characters are plausable, fully realized and capable of truely heroic actions, while being vulnerable and very human. No amount of planning, training or experience is possible for the unexpected that they find in this, harshest of conditions. It's not an easy read but I think it's his best novel, I've recommened it to all my family and friends. I know this story and it's characters will stay with me for a very, very long time.
Love this book !  Whooo Hoo.  Takes me back when i was younger. Decided gto read it again and I realized its a classic !  A must for vacation
I read this book years ago and still remember it fondly.  I know "gripping" is a word that is much overdone in literary reviews but is the only word that I believe describes this book.  Incredible story.
This was Alistair Maclean's first book and what a book to have written.  A ship has to make a run to Murmansk during the height of the Second World War battling dreadful seas and the marauding enemy. On board there are a crew who are worn-out and on the verge of mutiny. There is the Captain who is deathly ill. Conditions could not be worse.  This is a tale of great bravery under the worst of circumstances. Maclean using a third person narrative tells the tales of a number of characters well and although at times he becomes a little melodramatic, he writes a novel that is justifiably regarded a classic of the sea.  It is a book that starts off a little slowly but builds up to a dramatic ending.
What exceptional story of naval combat! Alistair MacLean gives us the best of his work. The story is that of a Marine convoy, comprising warships and vessels, civilians, merchants, the departure of British coast to Russia. However packs of U-boats attacked the convoy without respite. In the cold, snow, the misery of war, these episodes glaze your blood.  25 years after reading this book, I remember many vivid passages. A book of great emotion.
Enjoyed this book when I was a young lad and repurchased a few years ago in my forties.  Tale of life (and death) on a WW2 Cruiser running a convoy to Russia against overwhelming odds.  Read through in one sitting every time. Classic finish.
This is an excellent resource to have. It easily fits into a backpack.
Great book easy carry .
Handy little book to have
Very valuable information on staying alive when things go wrong.  Digest the info slowly don't just peruse it.  It could save your life if you ever need it.
Really good product. It's perfect for the beginner survivalist or someone who just likes to be prepared  This book is about the size of a coke can, for reference.
I bought this so that I could do two things. Learn as much as I can about the stuff written in this book and to use this book as a guide in the field.  As soon as I picked it up I could tell it was filled with information because of how heavy it was. I spent some time looking through the book and found that it really does help you cover your bases in an emergency situation.  It covers topics such as animal tracking, fire making, what to do in the event of a plane or car crash, and so many other things. I couldn't possibly memorize all of this information. That's what it's going to be an essential in camping pack.
The book was smaller than I thought it was going to be but that makes since if your going to have it in a survival situation. I got it as a gift for my husband I think hes going to love it.
Wow! Unbelievable info in such a small package. Very useful.
I really have enjoyed the history and adventure of the entire Sharpe series and recommend it to any with an interest in both.
Great service,thank you, good reading,excellent author whose series I have enjoyed,excellent continuty,characters are very interesting and I loved the historical background
Was initially unsure about this series as I've come to love the Grail and other series. Although the time setting is different, this book is as intriguing as the other series. I will definitely get more of the Sharpe series.
What a great place to start this series. A little bit slow at the start as it sets the stage but very fun once you get going.
My 40 year old son read it first and really enjoyed it, enough to ask for more Sharp books when I asked what he wanted me to get him for Christmas. So I thought I waould read as I am always looking for new authors and new reading experiences. It was so interesting,amusing,fun historical novel. Gave it to my brother when I had finished it and he loved it to. We will all read more Sharp books.
Sharpe weaves his way through a well researched historically based novel with some panache. I really enjoyed this portrayal of the British army in India through Sharpes eyes, and also liked reading of his exploits despite the forces in play against him.
I've written reviews on Sharpe before and I can't tell you enough how much I enjoy this character.  Bernard Cornwell is such a good writer and his research is exceptional.  I am interested through the whole book.  The stories and characters develop and make you part of it.  I do recommend you find the first book and work your way through the series.  It's like you read the main character's whole life.
The best survival book I have ever had. Lots of information, pictures,and covers every thing. Not any extra info tells you exactly how to without rambling.  Probably could make it in the wilderness with just this one book
A must have if your serious.
I have not really read much of this but just by thumbing through it, there's a lot of good info in here. The book is small enough to fit in your pocket but not too small where you cannot read the print. For the price, what's not to like!
Take your survival advice from a fellow who has lived it. Have known a few of these SAS operatives and they are as smart and tough as they come. A great narrative on what it takes to survive when the situation goes bad. A word to the wise is sufficient.
I'm currently writing this review from a hidden location that I learned to build and stock up with supplies from this book. Get it, read it, study it, practice what it preaches and learn to live when the sh*t hits the fan!
EVERYTHING you need to know to survive. Everyone needs a copy of this.
With "HMS Ulysses," his first novel, Alistair MacLean established himself as a writer with a flair for action, humor, and pulse-pounding plots. He showed a penchant for capturing the heroism of men in tough spots, the cold of icy environments, and the crash of the waves on the high seas. He gained fame through books such as "Ice Station Zebra," "The Guns of Navarone," and "Where Eagles Dare," but some of his later books seemed to devolve into predictable affairs.  "HMS Ulysses" still stands as a remarkable first novel and as a classic of war on the sea. With nail-biting scenes and teeth-grinding suspense, the story shows the fight for survival of men aboard a ship. I miss the straightforward storytelling of dear Mr. MacLean. I sincerely hope his books remain with us, to be passed to the next generation.
I didn't make the Murmansk run, but I have lost shipmates due to inclement weather and cold in the North Atlantic.  I didn't make the Murmansk run, but I have had to abandon ship due to enemy action.  I didn't make the Murmansk run, but I lost friends who did.  I didn't make the Murmansk run, but the author of  H.M.S.Ulysses (MacLean 1955) certainly did.  And he writes with a sureness and skill that makes me realize again what I knew so well during World War II -- that I was blessed and favored by God in not having made that run.  This is NOT a book for those who cherish the fairy tales of Aubrey.  It is strong drink for those raised on the pallid tea of Bolitho and Ramage.  It will stretch the sensibilities of followers of  Hornblower or Fox.  It will bring tears and anguish to those who like me recognize what men can go through, do go through, must go through.  Of all the war stories I have read from The Iliad on this is unequivocally the best  Three times I have read it and each time with more pain than joy.  I have almost a feeling of duty as if in the reading I am paying tribute to the men who made that run and -- in a sense -- exulting in my having been spared from the same.  There have been reviewers who have suggested that this would make a good movie.  To them I say nonsense.  There is not a producer with the guts to produce it nor an actor who could convincingly play most of the parts.  And I doubt if there is an audience with the stomach to watch it.  I didn't make the Murmansk run, but better men than I did -- and they died there.
HMS ulysses is a raw and brutal portrayal of life on the Russian convoys. There is no glamour here, just the story of a ship and its crew that is sent time and again on what was probably the worse convoys of the war. Alistait Maclean brilliantly portrays a crew that are desperately tired, have endured incessant attacks from the enemy in the near permanent  daylight of the Northern latitudes. Add the numbing cold from which there was no escape, the reader begins to feel the feeling of desperation, tiredness and resentment of the crew. Why us every time? One of the strengths of this book is the superb creation of the principle characters, especialy Captain Vallery. A veteran seaman who was pulled out of retirement to command a modern light cruiser, a perfect fighting machine, but crewed by men who were starting to perform their duties like zombies. Vallery's loyalty to his men was reciprocated by his crew. Simply put, this is the story of men on the very brink, men who only keep going  because of their captain, a captain who, like his ship is slowly dying.
My grandfather was a Master Mariner - qualified in both steam and sail - and he was also a captain on these Murmansk convoys on a merchant vessel. There was no armour plate for him or rapid-fire Oerlikon guns, just a few out-dated machines guns, and the selfish hope that it would happen to someone else. He could not outrun the bombers or the torpedo, a little zig-zagging was the most he could manage, and pray that his colleagues in the destroyers and other warships would look after them, and that his engineer would keep the steam pressure up.  His enemies were the German Navy and AirForce, and the incessant Arctic weather. There was no hiding place, or port of respite, the supplies had to get through, the ammunition, oil, guns and tanks - the bricks and mortar of war. If the merchant ships sank, soldiers were left unable to fight or planes could not take off - these thoughts were always in the sailors' minds. It was always the sacrifice of the few for the good of the many.  The crews of these warships were the forgotten heroes, toiling in the cold, damp, dark chambers of these warships, stoking the boilers, minding the pumps, carrying the ammunition; knowing that in the event of a leak, the hatches would be sealed above them, and the would drown or suffocate, whilst they were separated from torpedoes and gunshells by a thin layer of steel, instant death was a second away. The admirals and captains got the fame and credit, but it was paid for by the flesh and blood of the ratings and those marines who volunteered to serve aboard.  This book just tells it like it was.
In Russia are pyusblished many books about World War II. MacLean book is one of the best among them.
You seen the film, now read the book! One of the few times the film has been as good or nearly so as the source material novel. Of course a book provide to all those in reaching the little details that can't be captured on the silver screen.
Alastair Maclean's books tend to run along formulaic lines - the good guy good humouredly taking a fearful beating, the bad guy snarlingly getting his eventual comeuppance. Whether it's a Formula One race track, an island in the Barents Sea or a submarine beneath the polar ice cap, the pattern is unshakeable. Not bad, you understand, but familiar. This book, however, is completely different. Mr Maclean served in the Royal Navy during the Second World War and took part in several convoys similar to those described in this book. His experiences have coloured his writing and given this book an immediacy and a depth that the others lack. This book serves as a tribute to the men that lost their lives in the fearful Arctic Convoys of World War Two, a critical theatre of war that was largely forgotten.
MacLean's first novel, this is easily his best. It is a little different than his usual adventure-thrillers.  This is a serious book about the naval war of World War II. The North Atlantic convoy runs saw some of the highest casualties during the war and MacLean puts the reader squarely in the middle of that icy Nordic hell.  What happens when men are pushed far too far makes for some of the most gripping reading around.
MacLean's HMS Ulysses is a classic book of man against man but more importantly, man against the sea.  Set in the brutal Murmansk Run, this book is an account of the men of a ship marked out from the rest of the Royal Navy by a resistance to discipline.  The crew is rebelling against mindless authority but is still ready to do its duty - along the lines of the great Mutiney of 1797, when ships of the Royal Navy effectively deposed brutal and mindless officers but always maintained that it would up anchor and fight any attackers.  The men of Ulysses strike me as linear descendants of the sailors fighting Napoleon's fleet. There is a great cross section of British society in the officers and men of Ulysses; from aristocratic flag officers to gentleman rankers in the lower rates.  Petty tyrants and officers one would gladly follow anywhere.  MacLean has included them all and made it work to perfection in his tale. THe constant theme is not the brutality of war, or men killing each other, but the constant battle with the sea in all its many forms.  MacLean's attention to detail gives an almost 'you are there' quality to his writing.  The reader feels he is right there on the bow of Ulysses as it gets underway for one more run to Murmansk, to being on the bridge in her ultimate engagement with the German Navy.  You can almost feel the bone breaking cold whenever you are placed out on deck.  MacLean puts you right in the middle of it. If any of MacLean's books deserve to be made into movies, this is one that is long overdue. I found this book to be one that I didn't want to put down.  I felt the charecters were all extremely well developed, men that were almost real.  I don't know if MacLean was in the Royal Navy during World War II, but reading this book, I certainly get that impression.  This is a classic in Naval literature.
If Alistair Maclean had written only this novel I am sure it would be ranked alongside The Red Badge of Courage, The Naked And The Dead and All Quiet on the Western Front as a classic novel of men at war. Unfortunately his subsequent thrillers, so lightweight by comparison, have meant a lot of people would pass it by. It is a powerful testament to the men who suffered and died on WW2 convoys. Brilliantly told, it evokes strong emotions as it brings you face to face with the cruelty of war, and the devotion to duty that drives men on in spite of hardship and terror.
MacLean never wrote a better novel than this, his first. For those who love the sea and yet respect her fearsome savagry, HMS Ulysses satisfies.  Brilliant character development, superb technical detail. HMS Ulysses is  a good novel -- more than that, the book pays tribute to both the Royal  Navy and the Merchant Marine, and homage in equal measure to all -- German,  British, American.  It reminds us that brave men sailed the North Atlantic,  and that courage knows no boundaries. The book follows the fortunes of a  fighting ship whose crew is slowly self-destructing after months of convoy  duty in the North Atlantic.  They are offered the prospect of a break in  the Mediterranean if they can complete one final convoy to Russia through  the murderous North Atlantic, and thereby atone for a mutiny that has left  two people dead... Their voyage -- and ultimate atonement -- tests the  mettle of all on board, and challenges the base assumptions we tend to make  about the inherant goodness of Humanity.  It will leave you pondering how  you would have responded under similar circumstances, and perhaps may leave  you less than satisfied with what you learn about yourself. As a tale it  compares well with Noel Coward's wartime movie "In Which We  Serve".  MacLean paints his tale with prosaic pictures that stay in  your mind more persistently than any film could.  The final image of the  HMS Ulysses, with battle ensign flying, stays with you long after you put  the book down. MacLean's book reminds us that things like this happened  every day, once.  It is a reminder of the gallantry of a generation that is  fast disappearing.
H.M.S. Ulysses is the by far the best book written my Alistair MacLean.  It is a great depiction of the heroism and tragedy of war.  If you were shocked by the brutality of the opening sequence of "Saving Private  Ryan" read this book to find out what naval warfare in the Arctic  during World War II was like.
great book for the start of a series. I have read most of cornwell's work and he is a great writer
The Sharpe series on television was very good but the books are even better. The series of books give a great deal more detail and dialogue. I have a love of historical fiction and Bernard Cornwell is the best I have read (and I read a lot). He truly captures the readers imagination with his depth of knowledge and the fast paced action. The violence is quite gratuitous but then the subject matter tends to lead in that direction. So expect ripping war stories with insightful historical knowledge. 10/10
I have been reading Bernard Cornwell for over a decade and I have yet to be disappointed.  He makes every page a life like picture of Sharpe's period in history.  I read and reread the Sharpe series and each time I find something I missed the previous time. Many have said Cornwell's descriptions of equipment and uniforms are detailed and accurate, I say they are a trip back in history that makes the period come alive. When you've finished the Sharpe series read ALL his other books for additional fun reads.
I don't know whether to curse my brother or thank him for putting me on to this series. I have been unable to put them down and when one is finished I immediately download and start the next.  Bravo Mr Cornwell. Damn good reading.
Sharpe's Tiger is the first opportunity I have had to read one of Bernard Cornwell's books. Right from the start I was captivated by a story from a time in history that was very foreign to me. I really appreciated the historical accuracy of story. Sharpe is a character that has depth and believable double standards, self preservation and national identity, struggling with the British Army but at the same time sensing a belonging. I heartily recommend this book.
I've never read any of the Sharpe series before - I'm so pleased I tried this one. It's a jolly military romp in India; the British are attempting to overthrow the ruler of Mysore, Tipoo Sultan, but he's no walkover! In the ranks young Sharpe is getting an indecent dose of bullying from his sergeant and is up for a flogging that will kill him... ooo-er! Thrilling stuff, boy's own, just the ticket!
This book really makes you forget everything that is going on around you.  I felt like I was in India wearing a red coat and sweating "bullets".
Maybe you  have seen the Sharpe miniseries that was produced by A&E.  I have, and like them just fine.  But of course the books, where tens of thousands of men can march with the stroke of a pen, as so much better.  This is the first of the Sharpe novels, and is set in India, not Spain  as was the series.  Sharpe's first run in with Wellington, a commander in India.  A great novel by a great writer and I would recommend it to anyone with an interest in the age of Napoleon.
My first exposure to this series was with the BBC shows starring Sean Bean.  It's often risky to go from the screen back to the book when you like something but I have to say in this case it only brings the characters to life.  Bernard Cornwell does an exceptional job of bringing the Napoleonic period to life.
Perfect & quick delivery.
Great art work and companion story for the Chronicles of Narnia BBC series primarily for the children of my now adult children who grew up watching the BBC programs on VHS tapes. Very nice.
This is a lovely gift edition with colored illustrations.
It's never too late to read this classic.
We bought tickets to see this as a play. My daughter can be a little skiddesh about scary moments so we wanted to prep her about the story. She adores this book, completely understood the story line and LOVED the play as an added bonus.
A classic, read it
I enjoyed this book greatly.  There were enough twists to keep a reader guessing, and enough oomph to keep the reader pulling for the good guys.  I really liked it and am anxiously awaiting a chance to read the ensuing volumes.
great little resource book!
Excellent book, no more to say. Better to have the pocket version as a companion while traveling or camping.
great book but very small print
Good book
It goes straight to the subjects, a lot of basic techniques are demonstrated. Useful even for those who live in the countryside.
Ordered a second one as a gift! Great book!
Exactly like the full size book, just half the price and 1/3 the size.
This is the small (pocket size) survival guide. The more I have learned about John 'Lofty' Wiseman, the more impressed I've been. I love keeping this around just to look at with the wife for entertainment purposes or for ideas when we are camping. Definitely worth owning a copy of this, just in case. It covers about everything for survival, and has some real life stories from Lofty. Two thumbs up!
Excellent read!
This book arrived as if it had just come off the publishing house's book line.  The protective cover has gold on it, which pleased me as this book is to be a gift.  It is a full-sized book, arriving at my address surely well of the predicted date. Amazon is a reputable and safe way to purchase books I have learend.
Historically accurate and extremely well researched, this beginning to the series gives a compelling, if not stark, look into the life of a British foot soldier during the time of the Napoleonic War, although this book takes place in India. Though the main character was initially a bit too cold to truly like at first, I realized early on that he wasn't really heartless, just battle-hardened. He grew on me quickly and I found myself rooting for him through the whole book. I can't wait to read the whole series.
Having seen the TV movies, I gave this a try. It was really good! The setting and history seem to be very carefully researched and the writing is just great. I have found a new series to read.
Excellent, kept my seven year old grandson enthralled and eager for the next book.  We are excited to begin it soon.
Great read aloud.  I understand more of the symbolism every time I read it.  Such a great story!  Who doesn't dream about finding a secret room or a secret world.
Exemplar condition.
Beautifully read.
Awesome book!! Only a few chapters in but it's fantastic!! A ton of information! I realize now why this is the "survival bible"!!  I just wish they made it in the smaller version like the 2nd edition, I would like a compact copy to put in my backpack !
Great Book!!!!!
Get a pocket ref for urban survival too.
Arrived timely and very jus what I was looking for
This book is amazing!!! Haven't come across anything as complete as this.
A bug out bags 'must have' as every page is packed with valuable information and it is small enough to fit in purse, pocket or bag.
This was a fitting beginning to a long series of books that gently introduce you to warfare in the 18th century and life in the napoleonic era.
I had never listened to an audiobook until recently.  My 13-year-old son and I are listening to this book as I take him to school every AM.  The reader is very good with accents (OK, American ear thinks so), and this book has dozens of interesting characters, lots of detail about the times and events.  Not perfect (I doubt anyone associated with the British Army in 1800 would have to be instructed what a bucket in a cell was for), but a very well crafted novel.  My kid is mesmerized, and I am impressed all over again (read these 15 years ago) by the novel and astonished at how much more I get out of an audiobook than reading the same thing.  Hearing it is a richer experience, you have more time to make associations, more dimensions of input in tone and accent to build the illusion upon.  I highly recommend this audiobook.  I had listened to one of Cornwell's "Captain Aubrey" stories a few months ago:  different book, different reader.  I thought that also was a richer experience than reading them, but this is much better.
I wish History classes at school were as much fun as this! The lead character, Sharpe, is a vulgar, down-to-earth, moral englishman and skillful soldier born in 'whore steet'. He mixes and gains respect from the elitist British officers.  I've read 2 books so far and love the lead character. I also gain a history lesson at the same time! It's fascinating to google the battles and places at the same time as reading the books. Thank-you Mr Cornwell!! I'll read them all.
Great book! Slightly different from the movie, but not much!
I've loved this book since I was a child. The adventures of Lucy, Peter, Susan and Edmund when they go through the wardrobe to Narnia and find a land where it is always winter, but never Christmas, will appeal to children of all ages from 9 to 90.
My son loves this book.
A great fantasy adventure
I'm building a Narnia set for my granddaughter and this is one of her favorites.
Im almost sure that many of you love C. S. Lewis fantasy book series The Chronicles of Narnia, so I wanted to surprise you with my review for the second book: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. I haven't read the rest of the books, but you can write in the comment section why you love this series or which book is your favourite.  As you already know, The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is a fairytale, a fantasy book which revolves around the lives of four siblings (Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy Pevensie) who are sent to the countryside to escape the Blitz. While they explore the old house of Professor Digory Kirke, the children find an empty room where the only item of furniture is a wardrobe, which is actually a secret passage to the enchanted land named Narnia. It's always winter there, but Christmas never comes. Gradually, each of the four siblings enters into this fairy-like world, where they encounter Tumnus the faun, Jadis the White Witch or the self-proclaimed Queen of Narnia, Mr and Mrs Beaver, Aslan the Lion or the true King of Narnia, and other magical and mythical creatures.  The kids initially go on a mission to save Tumnus from the witchs castle, but when some old prophecies need to be fulfilled and spells to be broken, the siblings undergo adventures they have never dreamt of. I also want to add that there are very obvious religious symbols in this fantasy novel, but I won't get into that.  Though I loved the movie and watched it a few times before actually reading the novel, I also enjoyed most of the book for the depiction of Narnia, its characters, but also for the beautiful writing and plotline.
Love the symbolism and the message that even children can accomplish great things in a virtuous cause. Can't believe I waited so long to read it.
Great book. Everyone should know this stuff.
I have this unbelievable resource on my digital devices but it's nice to know there's a print version available for quick reference whenever I need it. I've always wanted the original book but it was just way too big and heavy so I was very pleased to find this ultralight, pocket sized reference that is jam packed with useful information. Just be aware that the type font is very small but it isn't too small that most folks under 40 years old could probably read it no problem. Otherwise, pack along a pair of reading glasses or magnifying lenses. Awesome resource!!
Bought this for my husband, who has wanted it for some time. It's pocket sized, which is great! He loves it, exactly what we were looking for.
perfect to pack in bag
Was a good choice as this book has a lot of information, recommend this for anyone wanting some of the inside scoop...
Great information on the outdoors that can save your life.  HIGHLY recommended.
Very nice. Worth every penny.
I have read all the Sharpe's books thru the years.  I love them all.  My son likes to listen to audiobooks and I think he will enjoy these books as much as I do, so even though I own the book, I bought the audio version so he could listen to it.
a throughly enjoyable read.  you can read this book for the simple joy of a tightly written, well plotted work of fiction, or as a novelization of historical events or enjoy both at the same time.  Cornwell has a chapter in the back of each book that tells you what part of the book is historical fact and what part he inserted his characters in. I have enjoyed the progress of his characters through his many books, Sharp rises through the ranks from privet to major, because of his daring and courage and ambition, not something that happened very often in the British army where rank was generally purchased.
Cornwell's "Sharpe's Tiger" is a great book. I couldn't put it down. Its bad guys aren't all bad, and the good guys aren't all good - and you're never quite sure where the main character (Sharpe) falls in that spectrum. Lots of action, descriptive narrative, be sure you get more than just the first of these books, since as soon as you finish this one, you're going to jump right back on Amazon and order the rest of the series!! (like I did)
I really liked this book as Cornwell seems to present blunt and realistic descriptions of life of the average enlisted man.  A really good read.  Take this book to the airport and you won't worry how delayed your flight is.
Awesome as usual.  The whole Sharpe series is just fantastic.  If you like good historical fiction, with a lot of great action, you have got to have the whole series.
My students absolutely loved this book.  Great for a novel study and class projects.
C.S. Lewis can't be beat!  bought this for my grandson. I read this to my son when he was around 8, and he loved them. I did too. A very wonderful story.
I bought two copies and donated them to our school library.  The librarian processed them, put them out to be borrowed on a Friday, both were borrowed.  By Monday one was already read and returned.
All children--and all adults--should read the Narnia books. It's that simple.
Great, must read series and the Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe is definitely one of my favourites!
I bought this book for my book work granddaughter. This book was my fav in my young years. I wanted her to feel the ! magic that I did when I first read it.
Just as expected and delivered fast! Thanks!
Very nice
Subject coverage
Perfect little addition to my camping/survival book set. I have this in a sandwich bag to keep it waterproof-ish./ Yeah, it's a little book and I have no idea how people can complain about "Oh the illustrations are small". YEAH nimrod...that's the point. Decent information for beginners and i guess intermediate camper/survivalists.
This little book is filled for useful information on what to eat, not to eat, what insects or animals are poison or not, and many other useful bits of information. There are diagrams and color pictures as well as having descriptive details. It is a handy guide for the novice and great reference for the pro outdoorsman.
This book should be the standard by which all other survival books be compared with. If you're unable to survive after learning and practicing the information given here, then it just wasn't meant to be. As a military veteran,  I've learned procedures here which I didn't know before and believe me, U.S. military survival courses are extensive and in my opinion,  among the best on earth. So, get this book,  you won't regret it.
It is concise and orderly in it's presentation
It is kind of funny that I bought a kindle addition Survival book...  I swear I was chuckling when I bought it too.  This is actually a pretty good book, I have it in hard copy too.  :)
This little book has everything you would need to know to survive. Bar none. Easy to understand, concise, friendly even... The only small book that supersedes this one is my Bible.
Great book with lots of valuable information. I like the fact it covers several different climates and what to focus on in each area. I find myself wanting more information in some areas which I think is a good thing. This book expands your train of thought.
I haven't read all of the Sharpe books and since I've been getting them at the library I haven't been reading them in order either. But I have to say it hasn't diminished my enjoyment of them one bit. Great fun and a great antagonist! Sharpe's Tiger is my favourite at this point- I love the dynamics between Lawford and Sharpe! I also loved how Sharpe faced the tiger and the jettis- maybe unrealistic as some other reviewers have claimed but not overtly so and great fun anyway. Oh and the part where he "shoots" McCandless and later admits he would have shot him for real if he had too? Just a hint of the ruthlessness that Sharpe is capable of and which sets him apart from many "heroes". Anyway, I'd recommend this book to anyone who enjoys adventures and hard bitten heroes!
This is a really good book and a great page turner.  You want to keep reading it.  It makes you want to read all of the sequels to it.
Great!  The first in the series and am already hooked!
I became aquainted with Cornwell through his Grail Quest series, and then I read the Last Kingdom.  I was reluctant to read the Sharpe novels for the obvious reason that if I got hooked on them then I would be in for a lot of reading-there are just so damn many of them.  However, I read Sharpe's Tiger and was blown away.  I quickly burned through his Indian campaign and read Trafalgar.  And I must say it was quite an introduction.  My advice is to start with these, and then take a break.  Come back in a few months when you are ready for a new campaign.  You will love the rich historical detail, the action and the character development.  Cornwell doesn't dissappoint.  Enjoy.
Dang it all, I am now hooked on Sharpe books.  This was my first encounter with this series, and glad it was recommended to me.
The first chronicle of Narnia
Before I review this book, I want to inform you that I am an English-second language foreigner who seeks improvement in my reading skills. I have had to read hard text books and other difficult books in English. It was discouraging and slow. However, I asked my English professor how I can read faster and he told me to read lot. So I wanted to start with something simple and enjoyable. The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe was exactly what I needed. The words were simple and easy to understand, the pictures didn't hurt either. Also, the story was interesting enough to keep me going when I was frustrated with myself. I was able to relate to each character in the book, both their strengths and weaknesses. In the end I was left feeling uplifted and ready to learn more about the other books in the series and I feel like my reading skills improved a little at least I feel like it. I recommend this book to anyone, but mostly to those who are in a similar situation to me. Youll definitely enjoy the book and find yourself reading faster than before.
It reads best not as a tale of Other Worlds, but as a tale of our world. Lewis teaches us a great deal of what the world is truly like when you've learned to look rightly at it.
It's a Good Book
I bought this audio book because I wanted something for my baby to listen to in the car. She is only 9 months old and this gets her attention and soothes her every time. I was concerned about the narration but the narrator is wonderful! He plays the roles of all the characters beautifully and the story itself is one I could listen to over and over. I am engrossed in the story and I know my daughter will enjoy it when she gets older even more than she does now!
Can't put the book down and can't wait to read the next book
This is chronologically (i.e. in the sequence of events) the first book in the Richard Sharpe series, though not first in the order of publication. See Cornwell's website for the chronology of the whole series. I think this is a good place to start if you want to get into the Sharpe books. The book begins with Richard Sharpe as a private in the British Army in India preparing to march on Seringapatam, to do battle with the Tipoo Sultan. The imagery is classic Cornwell. The brutality and the fascination of war are vividly portrayed. His command of the actual history is excellent as the reader will appreciate from the post-script and his characters have been injected into actual historical events with remarkable skill. Here the reader will meet the young Arthur Wellesly (he who will one day vanquish Napoleon as the Duke of Wellington) and other historical figures. Some actual historical details remain murky and Cornwall's sheer audacity in assigning to Sharpe a pivotal role in the conclusion of the siege (I won't reveal the specifics) deserves as crisp a salute as do Sharpe's fictional exploits on the field of battle.
This is the first book of the Sharpe series, not the first one written; but the first chronologically. It is fun, entertaining and very readable. Cornwell's research is as excellent as usual. He takes some licenses for the shake of the story and continuity, but this is OK. Some people are outraged by the portrait of the Tipoo Sultan, but historical characters are rarely depicted accurately in historical fiction, so I think this can be forgiven. Besides a more serious account of the Tipoo life and character is given at the end of the book on the Historical Note.  Many people insist in compare this series with Patrick O'Brian's Master and Commander. I don't think this is fair for any of the series, they are different entities. What they have in common is that once you start you may get hooked and devour one book after another...  And in the literary world today that is a rare and marvelous thing.
This was a wonderful book that I enjoyed a great deal! I recived it and the next two for my birthday 3 days ago and I finished the last one about an hour ago! I hope you read, and enjoy this book, and all of Bernard Cornwell's other books!
Excellent survival source and very compact
So far a very good book. It's small so it goes very good in my b.o.b. Super informative from food to climate to emergency birthing. Its is very small so expect small print but it still has a lot of info and illustrations.
Extremely interesting and informative.  Fast service.  Great purchase
Great condition, very good gift.
This is a great book, lots of extremely practical survival info that I never would have thought of but makes perfect sense. Some of these books are really off the wall, but this is very practical. Def great addition to my bug out bag.
Before going to a military survival course I wanted to read up a bit to arm myself with some knowledge. This book is great. It had some info that was repeated during my traininh, plus some extra things that came in handy. Survivalist need to read this book.
Great guide, as described. For bug out bag.
Sharpe's Tiger is the first chronologically (although not the first written) in Bernard Cornwell's acclaimed Richard Sharpe series.  In Sharpe's Tiger Private Richard Sharpe is in India fighting with the 33rd Regiment.  His regimental officer is inept, and his sergeant is the evil Hakeswill, but overall Sharpe is happy.  Then, his woman catches the eyes of his superiors and Sharpe is set up for death.  He is tricked into hitting an officer and sentenced to a brutal flogging.  Yet, despite the flogging Sharpe is saved by his colonel Arthur Wellesley and sent on a secret mission with a young officer named Lawford.  Sent to a impregnable fortress controlled by the Tippoo, Sharpe must battle British and native forces to complete his mission.  Failure means hideous death, but success could lead him to more wealth than he could possibly imagine.  Once again Bernard Cornwell writes a rolicking adventure.  By taking Sharpe back to the beginning, Cornwell brings an added dimension to his classic character.  It is interesting to see Sharpe grow and mature as a soldier.  Overall, I highly recommend this volume of historical fiction.
I have read many historical works of fiction.  However, I had really no prior reading experience with this era of Indian/British history.  This book provides an exciting adventure about British soldiers in late 18th century India.  Particularly follows the trials and adventures of a hardened soldier.  This is not about any ordinary soldier. Rather, it's about Private Richard Sharpe.
My brother told me about the 'Sharpe' series and so I read Sharpe's Tiger.  AWESOME!!!  From the first page, Bernard Cornwell paints the picture of what life was like for enlisted 'grunts' in 1799.  You can almost feel the heat of the desert and feel the grime.  Cornwell puts you in Sharpe's shoes.  It's written so vividly that it's like you're right there.  I'm glad that there are 20 books in the series.  I'll be reading every one.  I LOVE discovering authors that I haven't read that write this well..  READ IT, YOU'LL LOVE IT!!!
This is the first Sharpe novel I have read, although I did catch some of the TV series.  I am not a fan of multiple formula novels churned out by lazy writers, and I was suspicious of this series. But Cornwell has done something different here.  He has taken real events, from the career of Arthur Wellesley (later the Duke of Wellington).  Then he has inserted the character of Richard Sharp, a canny ex-thief ranker in the British Infantry.  One of the men Wellington was to describe as "Scum of the Earth" after Badajoz.  From the viewpoint of Sharpe we see the business end of the British Army, a worms eye view of the rise of Wellesley and the Indian and Peninsular campaigns. What you are getting is real history fleshed out with a cracking good story.  And it is very well done!  I am very tempted to dig further into this substantial series of books.  I can see why they have become so popular.
I recently read this book and it was amazing. From start to finish i never got bored. It's a great book for airplane, car or bus rides. Good for Children or adults. This is Cornwells best series so far.
Chronologically, this is the first adventure of the war-loving soldier, Richard Sharpe. I am new to the series, but if the first three books are any indication (The India Trilogy), I will read them all. The author, Cornwell, is a perfect blend of great storyteller and excellent writer. Cornwell's discription of the siege of Seringapatum is beautifully rendered. The reader can feel the heat and exaustion, hear the swish of saber and whine of bullets. Often, in books that deal with military history, the reader may find himself slightly confused as to troops movements and tactics, but not here. Cornell is such a fantastic action writer, that it is all crystal clear. The reader can sense the flow of action, picture the battlefield perfectly, and understand the reasons behind the decisions; and all without hampering the surge of action. The characters in the novel are particularily well drawn. This is a story with great villians and enemies. Especially enjoyable is Sharpe's nemisis in the novel, the horrid Obadiah Hakewill, Sharpe's sadistic sargent. I also like the author's portrait of The Tippoo Sultan. while it would be hard to call it a sympathetic portrait, Cornwell takes pains to write this enemy in truthful, fascinating strokes. Just a great piece of work and one of the few books I have read lately that have kept me up all night reading. Onward, Mister Sharpe!
This book is the one all Sharpe fans have been waiting for, Sharpe before he got his commission.  The book sets Sharpe as a raw recruit off to fight in India.  As with all the Sharpe books you great a great insight into the battles fought in the past,  this book is no different. The history lesson we get here is of the siege of Seringapatum (1799), the island fort of the Tippoo of Mysore.  Sharpe sets of on a mission with the promise of promotion and finds himself going from prisoner to hero.  The rest you have to read, i don't want to spoil the plot, just know its a great read from a great author. This is the first of a series of books set in India (Tiger, Triumph, and Fortress) all of which are fantastic.  The book introduces us to the beginning of the Sharpe Hakeswill relationship, which is a great part of the Sharpe series. This book sets Sharpe off on his voyage, which will one day see him serving next to the Prince of Orange at Waterloo.  If you're new to the Sharpe series I recommend reading them in order, the story constantly evolves and it just gets better and better. 5 Stars.
This book is the greatest adventure I have ever read.  This is Indiana Jones and the Charge of the Light Brigade.  This is simply what most writers aspire to.  Cornwell is a genius at description and character and action.
My 12 year old son and I so enjoyed this book and the audio companion.  Listening in the car kept us very entertained!
This book is the greatest work of art have seen outof C S. Lewis. The story is thoughtful, origional, and action-packed. This is the true soul of a great book.  I suggest everyonr reads this book at least twice because there are two main ways to read this novel: For pleasure or for seeing between the lines. (not literaly).  Where you to read this book for pleasure, you would get a few concepts here and there but really read it for fun. To read it for seeing within the lines, means you look for messages and metaphorsthe author uses to answer questions that can be very meaningful.  There is not a soul in this universe that would not benefit from reading this. I coud go on forever discussing this but sadly, I don't have forever!  Peace Roberto Wick 12 Years Old
My brother gave me this book to read as a kid. I loved this book, so I sent it to his kids. Thanks, Bro.
love this  classic book, along with the movie !!!!!!!! sooooo good.just a little too long. But still great !!Buy it .It's  worth it !
A classic!
Loved it! Can't wait to read the next in the series! Highly recommend it. Classic tale that is also an allegory for Jesus as Savior of the world in the person of Aslan the lion who sacrifices himself to save the boy who sinned.
I wish I was Lucy!-Maggie age 5 Best book in the Universe-Sadie age 8 So happy to share this magic with my children-momma
Take this with you when you go. Not many situations can be encountered in the wild that aren't covered in this book. I have read this through and keep a copy along when possible while venturing offroad.
There are couple different SAS books out there. This one is perfect for the beginner and to help brush up on some older skills
This book was a breath of fresh air and a great begining to the Sharpe's in India series.  I was disapointed with the last two novels (Sharpe's Trafalgar & Sharpe's Prey).  I had missed Sharpe's Tiger for some reason and just picked it up and was VERY pleased. The story of Sharpe as a private under Haskwell, and the Tippoo was just plain first rate reading on a par with the best of the Sharpe series.  No slow storyline, no useless characters, just action, adventure and plotting on a high note. Like Sharpe we find ourselves respecting his foes and wishing a better fate for them.  This is the joy of the story. In an old comic (King Conan #7) the barbarian says "It is good for a man to have brave enemies so he can remember them after he has slain them."  We see that same respect from Sharpe and the British Army in this battle.  It will make you want to march with Sharpe (in text) through India. Buy it!
This was my first experience with Bernard Cornwell, and I was most satisfied!  Sharpe's Tiger is the first chronologically in the career of Richard Sharpe.  He is a private in the British army and the action takes place in India around 1799.  Cornwell is a good writer, and the story is superb.  There are shades of Indiana Jones, as Sharpe is a resourceful and immensely likeable hero.  There is adventure, suspense and superb characterizations.  It was one of the most fun books I have read in a while, and I can't wait to read the next installment.  Highly recommended for anyone who likes history or adventure.
I really have to hand it to all the positive reviewers for this series and this book in particular;  you are right.  Sharpe is outstanding and I can't wait to read more of the series.  After months reading positive reviews of some of the earlier books in the series (and by earlier I mean those that were published first in time) I decided to give Cornwell a go.  What I expected was a rip roaring adventure and I was not disappointed.  In fact, I was esctatic!  Believe everything good you read about Sharpe's Tiger: the book is fun without being light.  Cornwell includes some very helpful maps and his prose is extremely colorful.  He is particularly good at describing battle scenes and dialogue.  Expect to finish this book at record time; its not short, its just that you will want to read just one more exciting chapter.  Now, if only movies could be this good!
This book is the best i have ever read. Bar none. Private Richard Sharpe is so believable that i find it hard to believe that he was not a real person. Sargeant Hakeswilll is cool too but sharpe rules
This is the first thing I have read by Bernard Cornwell, and I am glad that I have the series to yet read.  I found this a fast-moving, slashing story and one has the impresion that it is carefully researched.  I read my encyclopedia's entries on the siege and battle of Seringapathan and as far as I could tell the book is all right, except that the fictional characters are not mentioned in the article.  (:  We all know of Arthur Wellesley but some of us did not know of Baird.  In the Brittanica article on Baird we find:  "In the defeat of Col. Baillie's force by Hyder Ali, Baird was taken prisoner, and remained a prisoner for four years.  After a short interval at home he returned to India in 1791 and took part in the campaign against Tippoo.  After serving at the Cape of Good Hope he returned to India, and took part in the last war against Tippoo.  Maj. Gen. Baird stormed Seringapatan and became master of the place where he had so long been a prisoner.  He was bitterly disappointed when the command of the place was given to Sir A. Wellesley..."  So nice to learn accurate history from rip-roaring fiction.  I have read all the reviews to date (32) and agree with the good things everybody says.
Great series.
I love this book and the movie
This is the best book I've ever read!!! The sequence was great and it was so intense and interesting. You guys need to read this book, it is AWESOME!!!!!!
One of my favorite stories. C.S. Lewis knows how to bring the reader in to a whole other world.
Great book
This was a gift to my great granddaughter, and I'm certain she loved it as I did, as her father, my grandson, did.  Great classic, and I intend to gift her the succeeding books.
Perhaps I missed out on an integral part of childhood, but I did not have many fairy tales or books of magical tales in my life as a young boy. Lewis has an uncanny ability to make this readable as an adult and readable to a child. The reflections towards real life (one does not lock himself in a wardrobe!) and the magical life of Narnia (...because that is how beavers behave) are incredibly easy to relate to one another - it's as if you are there, understanding the ways of Narnia, though you've never been (and sadly, never will be).  Notable are the Christian reflections of this tale, of what it's like to go down a path of sin with Edmund as he makes his way through the cold to the witch's castle, having fellowship amongst themselves at the dinner table, and Aslan's ultimate sacrifice, while being a being of immense power, allowed himself to be muzzled, beaten, and killed by the hands of the witch. A Christian myself, I look forward to re-reading the tale to grasp upon Lewis's deeper yet simple stories of the life of children and beings if Narnia. That being said, if you are not Christian, the story does not really reference Christianity much at all, save calling the male children "Sons of Adam" and the female children "Daughters of Eve".
Read this book to my youngest... wish I would have read it to all my children.  Take the time to read it to one if your kids. Chances are you may enjoy it more then they do!
Great book.  Great ending.  Uplifting.
very small but packs a punch.!!! tons of information in this book. and it fits perfectly in small pockets
a good read for anyone wanting to hone up on their skills
Great bug out book. Great guide for survival in any kind of disaster whether man made or natural.
I brought these books for my Nieces & Nephews and they liked them.
This book is a tried and proven classic full of useful information that isint recklessly provided. John Lofty Wiseman is a legend . The E Book also has some fun apps.
is great but it is very small print
The book is very good to all outdoors activities. I happing by buy it. =D
Cant live with out don't leave home with out it
This is the first Sharpe novel I've read and what a mistake it was to wait so long.  My general avoidance of fiction, especially of the serial nature, caused me to foolishly ignore this series.  Sharpe's Tiger was a mixed blessing: Yes, I loved the book, but as another reviewer warned, I am now addicted.  Thankfully, I picked the right book to start with, this being the first chronologically in Sharpe's military career. Now, rather than go into detail about the plot and characters (which have been adequately covered in other reviews) I wanted to underscore how impressed I am with the historical accuracy.  Cornwell has been first rate in his attention to detail and in describing the conditions of military life in the British Army of the period, even in drawing distinctions between regular army regiments and those of the British East India Company. But even more impressive is the amount of research that must have gone into writing such a novel.  With historical fiction you always have people such as myself looking for errors and making pedantic statements like, "But the 52nd Regiment of Foot was never involved in the attack on Java".  But Sharpe's Tiger, and presumably the rest of the series, is meticulously researched.  Probably not one person in 10,000 has heard of the battle of Mallavelly (the only reference I have found is in Vol. 4 of Fortescue's History of the British Army which is, sadly, long ago out-of-print) yet Cornwell presents a robust picture of this engagement. Being particularly interested in the Peninsular War (the setting for many of the other Sharpe adventures), I was elated to finally discovered what so many fans of Cornwell had known for a long time: The Sharpe series, like Hornblower, is sure to be a classic of this genre.
What can I say about about this author except that he never fails to disapoint. After having read his Arthur and Starbuck series it took me some time to get around to the Sharpes series and now I wonder why I waited so long. A great story, very realistic battle scenes and even some great humor to. This is a great introduction to the character Richard Sharpe. I highly recomend this book to anone who enjoys history and adventure. My only criticism was that it was to short, despite their being many more Richard Sharpe books!
I must admit that I love Bernard Cornwell's Sharpe series. The characters are always memorable, the story interesting(and based partly on fact), and the battle scenes very exciting. This isn't the first Sharpe book I've read, but it's the first in chronological order, and that made it even more of a pleasure to read. Richard Sharpe is only a private in his early 20's in this one, and his tough but likable personality and incredible bravery are fully intact, so you'll be cheering for Sharpe in no time. Obadiah Hakeswill, Sharpe's nastiest enemy, and one of Cornwell's best characters, plays a significant role in this book which makes it even more interesting. Just like the other Sharpe novels, as soon as you finish it you'll immediately want to read the next one. So be warned: Sharpe becomes an addiction very quickly. But hey, and addiction like this is a good thing, right?
Sharpe's Tiger moves along at a cracking pace and captures the life of times of soldiers in that era very well.  A good rollicking read and it's not hard to imagine that Cornwell spent a previous incarnation trudging through India with a trail of bibbis behind him.
It is commonly believed that Cornwell has never been behind a bad book.  The Sharpe series was universally excellent, even his contemporary thrillers were good, and A.Mack is not known as a lover of contemporary thrillers. The writing is excellent on this work. The charachters and the action is portrayed superbly. When I first bought this book I had read most of the Sharpe series and had also read the Warlord Chronicles. Cornwell wrote the books set in India after most of the books which were set later, when Sharpe-watchers had given up on new Sharpe material, and it did not disappoint. It needed to be written because Sharpe often described Hakeswill and Captain Morris in the Peninsula, and readers wanted to hear about Sharpe's days in India, about which he was reticent in the Peninsula. Indeed the only objection which I have is to the cover. A different edition has a picture of an elaborately carved rifle on the front, and I believe this to be superior to the one displayed. PS- This book gave me two of my greatest ambitions- to visit India, which I have subsequently done with my latest girlfriend, and to drink three bottles of wine at one sitting, as Morris did, which I have just embarked on the process of achieving....
I had read the starbuck series, by Cornwell. Just now I started reading the sharpe series.  I finished this book within 24 hours, after getting it. A true recommendation if you like to read cornwell.
. After having read the Starbuck serie (Civil War) from B. Cornwell, i had great expectations.  To my great delight, the same feeling of plunging in the middle of an historical battlefield seized me after a few pages,  making me forget about (every bloody thing I had to do in) my new house for  a few hours. SHARPE'S TIGER is the first in the serie (of about 12) in  chronological order.  Even though Mr. Cornwell doesn't write them this way,  if you want to appreciate the historical flavor and Sharpe's career in Her  Majesty's army, you want to read them chronologically. The reader looking  for nice fancy figures of speech will be left unsatisfied.  Political  correctness is also left in the closet.  It is blunt, direct cannon-fodder  daily life we are looking at and it is written that way You may  disrespect these incompetent officiers, having bought their grade, you will  probably hate Sgt. Hakeswill, the potence saved maniac. you will feel pity  for Mary and the destiny traced for her. One thing is sure, we will all  finish that book with the smell of gunpowder floating around us and a smile  in the historical note about general Wellington All rights reserved to  The Reviewer Provided by courtesy to Amazon.com
I began reading the Sharpe series after seeing the programs onPBS, and I am very hapy that I did. The writing is crisp, and thebooks are consistently entertaining. I see the author is now going into Richard Sharpe's past (before the Peninsula Campaign), and I am pleased that there will be more of these works coming in the future.
Just what was expected good transaction.
Love C.S, Lewis books. this book is awesome.
Read it to my kids. We all love the series!
Classic story with plenty of intrigue, adventure, and remarkable good versus evil. Lewis has a classic for generations To come.
Can't wait to read this book again.
JUST FANTASTIC AND AMAZING STORY!! I like this Narnia -story so much U have to buy this if you like fantasy story so much. *_*fun
1 of my favorite series!
I was given this book many years ago when I was just a child, and I have enjoyed reading it many times since. If you're looking for a great book to read or a great book to give as a gift--I highly recommend this story!
I have read all of Cornwell's Sharpe series and highly recommend them.  Take the time to savor them as when you are finished they are gone. Just  the many of the other great reads of the past quarter century-A Boy's Life,  Hotel New Hampshire,Over the Edge, Spenser, Lawrence Block,etc.-they are  presents you introduce your friends to.  Clearly Cornwell will  "flense" your resistance to beginning this great series. I rarely  give five stars to any writer. Turn off the History Channel and start  reading!
It never ceases to amaze me how a story so full of historical detail can be so consistently entertaining.  'Sharpe's Tiger' has the series' protaganist, Richard Sharpe, serving as a lowly private in India in 1799  and infiltrating the stronghold of the Tipoo Sultan before the arrival of  the British army.  Many factors contribute to Cornwell's remarkable novel,  but the one that stands out is the character of Obidah Hakeswill, an  antagonist so loathsome he is sure to go down as one of the great literary  villans of all time.
My first exposure to Richard Sharpe was via the series aired on PBS.I'm inclined to think this an advantage since it makes visualization of these brilliant spectacles that much easier. When I think of Sharpe I can't help  but see Sean Bean. But even without this aspect Cornwell's work is without  equal when it comes to verisimilitude. His eye for detail,and the exhaustive  research he must have done into military equipment,organization,tactics and  customs of the period really brings the story to life for anyone with an  affinity for authenticity.
Exceptional and exciting. The one disappointment is that it is so fast-paced that you'll not want to put it down and therefore it won't help you kill time at the airport.
I have read all this series by Mr. Cornwell. I especially enjoyed the  description of Wellington's campaings in Spain and France from the  perspective of a junior officer in addition to the description of Richard  Sharpe's struggle within the hidebound military system of the times. I  grew up with C.S. Forester and first learned of the Peninsula Campaign in  Rifleman Dood and The Gun. Much like Hornblower he (Sharpe) rose through  the ranks by merit alone. As Hemmingway recomended Hornblower to  "Anyone literate I know" I recommend any of the Sharpe novels to  everyone I know who enjoys a excellent story or loves history.
Tons of info!  A must have for any emergency or camping bag.
A must have survival guide, super handy and very easy to find what you need in a hurry. This covers the whole gambit including how to prepare or deal with whatever climate you happen to be surviving in which is one step further than all of my other guides have taken it. It also covers meals and has great advice on not starving and how to keep from poisoning yourself. I've read through it once, employed the tactics twice and I've only had it for two weeks so far. This should more than pay for itself! Also it's affordable compared to some of the other guides at the same size. (Which do NOT include climate advice and prep). I will admit the book is smaller than I expected but quickly realized it fit perfectly in my day pack pocket, it's like it was sized like that on purpose.
Love this book. Full of useful ideas. Hope to never need it in a shtf scenario
didn't realize the book was so small but the info is great
it has a lot of common sense stuff and quit a bit of stuff I use when camping.
A great little book with a lot of very informative information packed inside. The book is small and light enough to keep in your pack. The book is in color and is very easy to read.
love this book
My husband and son are survival enthusiasts and I got this book for my husband to keep in his bug out bag.  My husband is not a reader, in fact I was leary to buy him a book as I've only ever seen him read books I've pushed on him.  He loves this book!  He found it super informative and we'll structured.  We would recommend this product.
I have loved this book since it was given to me when I was a little girl many years ago. It touched my heart then before I understood the allegory, and it touches my heart now.
I bought this book because It was the one missing on the collection and it is the same. My son was so happy to have the collection complete.
I love this book series! Kids and adults alike will enjoy the story and adventures in these books. Can't wait to read The Horse and His Boy.
I just finished reading this book with my fifth graders in my class.  I have read this book many times over the course of my life and it just gets better with time.
Made a Great Gift
Loved reading thus to my kids. One if my favorite stories!
Informative
Shipped fast great condition. And I would say great book to buy I loved it. Things I didn't know about that I been wanting to know about are in this. Like a lot of mushrooms that you can eat. I only new of one kind that I could find to eat.now I'll know more of them. Thank you. Fact I'll be ordering another one soon for my daughter.
Can't wait to start surviving
The paperback has very useful information and it is very practical.
Product as described, thanks again!
Has a lot of useful information for surviving. It covers first aid, essentials for a survival bag, map reading, shelters, plants and other stuff. It's small and light weight. I keep this in my b.o.b because it has a lot of information that will come in handy.
sooooo, much info. This is a must have for any survivalist or camper
Could there be more information in this book, sure... but will we be glad to have it in an emergency... you betcha! Most of the essentials are covered, and enough information is given to help you survive in nearly any stranded emergency situation.
Totally awesome!!  This book is a little heavier than the 1st edition.  So take note of pack weight.  But it's more than worth the price!  It also coincides with the modern television survival shows; and with the added Urban and Disaster chapters... you can't get much better a book.  This book really can save your life/lives.
This is a very informational book with all the info you would need for a natural disaster type situation. It's compact and can fit in your pocket let alone in a back pack. I looked around at book stores and browsed online when I found this great deal I had to purchase. I would however recommend reading it before packing it away since it is filled with a variety of information, it would be a good idea to get familiar with each topics location in the book.
This Kindle version was perfect for me as I was reading to my 6 and 8 year old grandsons at bedtime with the lights turned down.  They loved the book, enjoyed the pictures, and are now waiting impatiently for me to produce the movie for them. I have ordered the movie and the full paperback set of the complete Tales Of Narnia.  They read well themselves and should enjoy reading these books and I know they will be approved by their teachers as they attend a Christian elementary school. These are classics and it took just one book to hook them into wanting to read the rest.  As we read this book together we were able to discuss the biblical parallels which they were able to identify.  It was great fun.  My adult son, their father, participated as well and was thrilled with their thirst for more.
Awesome and a page turner. I read the book after watching the movie and the book is def better! I recommend that you watch the movie first though! So your not disappointed lol
This was a fantastic book that resembled bible stories in a way. C.S Lewis is an amazing writer. I can't wait to read the other books.
The dialogue was fabulous and the plot of the story was easy to follow. I give this book 5 stars because of its unique and creative storyline.
This book has a lot to offer from the difference from edible plants and poison plants to snakes,mushrooms and even making traps. Trust me I have a had the military survival manual this SAS book covers everything.
Its ok if you know how to read.
Lots of interesting information in it. Plenty of details and things to learn. The book is actually smaller then I thought it would be and that's great cuz that means it'll fit in a pocket with ease to take with.
Interesting read. Helpful stuff.
This book should be required reading for all children with vivid imaginations.  A story of the relationships between typical siblings with a touch of magic in the mix.
What I enjoyed most about this book was that when everything seemed lost there was a sign of hope. I enjoyed this the most because I love when in a book the main characters are trapped or doomed, but then something or someone comes and the tables turn. An example of this in the book is when news spreads of Alsan's return to Narnia to end the White Witch's reign. When Aslan returns, the Witch's magic weakens.   What I least enjoyed about this book was that there was a traitor. I disliked this because I do not like traitors especially self-centered ones. An example of this is how Edmond betrayed his own brother and sisters for the Witch because he was promised to become King of Narnia if he helped her. But Edmond had forgotten he made a deal with a Witch and realized what he had done.   I think this is a book for people who love adventure stories. I believe this because the four main characters stumbled upon Narnia and embark on an exciting journey through it. This book is filled with interesting characters, sad moments, and happy moments. This book is creative and has twists in the story.
Very interesting. Good book but what else would it be since it was written by C. S. Lewis
One of my favorite books.
It is fun adventuerous and exciting everytime I read it the picture will immediately appear in my head, my favourite characters are Lucy and Susan because at first when the two elders saw Lucy keeping on talking about the wardrobe and Mr Tummuus, they thought she went mad and went to tell the owner of the house what had happened. They were surprised that he did not agree with them, then one day, the housekeeper were chasing after them because they broke a window in the house they had no where else to hide but in the room with the wardrobe that Lucy kept on talking about so they ran into the wardrobe but Peter being smart did not close the door of the wardrobe and soon they began to push and suddenly became cold, they felt snow under their feet and they fell onto the cold snow!! The two elders apologised to Lucy for not believing her and ventured into the forest.... I am not going to talk about the story anymore if you want to know more about the story buy the book, and read it.
It was so cool the author used so many imaginary animals.  So I liked the book. It is cool to get to a country through a wadrobe
Great book!  You can always learn something new when it comes to survival training.
Great to add to any scout how to books or personal enrichment. I went though it and practiced what I learned, now it goes with me every time I go camping. Always in backpack.
I read it years ago, but didn't really remember it. So, I took the initiative to read the entire Chronicles from The Magician's Apprentice onward.  The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe is just a wonderful adventure. It's great for kids and adults alike. You know, children will be transported into Narnia and will be filled with the wonder of a new world. Adults enter the world remembering what it was like to be filled with such careless wonder about things. It takes you back to that place in your youth where you wanted to get lost on an unbelievable adventure.  Such a wonderful story.
Not only a great children's book, but great for adults as well. Timeless
It is a good and easy book book to read. Awesome characters and an awesome story plot as well. Good job describing the setting.
Great book! Enough said.
I am reading this with my children and they have loved hearing the story so far. The chapters are the perfect length for bedtime story.
great story to read to your kids
I have missed reading the Chronicles of Narnia.  When I was a kid, I devoured reading this series.  But I never knew that it was based on the Bible.  But when I was a kid, the series started with this book instead of the magicians nephew.  But I am glad that I have picked up reading the series again.
Well it was a good book so I bough the 2nd edition, the 3rd edition, and the miniature edition. So, duh, I recommend it.
Great item
Perfect
5 stars easily!  This book is packed full of knowledge that virtually anyone can learn from!  I'd gladly pick up this book again!
Item as described, fast shipping, excellent packaging.  Highly recommend
What a great read!
item as described
Covers more than I could ever imagine in a survival guide
Great book
a classic. Brilliant from start to finish and one that your family will want to read over and over for many generations!!
C. S. Lewis is all that needs to be said.
A life-long favorite and classic fantasy story.  C.S. Lewis created a wonderful world, memorable characters, and an enchanting narrative.  I cannot recommend this book (and the entire Narnia series) enough for children and adults.
Loved it.
Fast shipping, fine quality book!
Seen the movie but not read the book? Yikes, buy it and read it right now. oh, and there are a bunch of other books, too. Go read those.
My 7 year old grandson is really enjoying the story line of this book his mom + dad are reading to him.  He is going to watch the movie after finishing reading the book.  Nana hopes he will want to read the other books.  This book is still a classic.
Awesome book
The little book is perfect in size. It has all the adequate information you need to survive. The papers in the book aren't those cheap thin paper that easily tears either. It's similar to plastic magazine paper that is stronger then cheap thin "newspaper" paper. Just wrap it up in some waterproof material you can find in your kitchen, and it'll survive most things except fire. The shipping is decent. Not too slow, but I think there needs to be improvement. I tracked the package, and it said that it arrived it my hometown for 36 hours before they delivered it to me. They have to give it to my local postal service is the cause for the delay. It takes them an entire day for them to do that. Then you have to wait for the next day for them to deliver it which isn't early morning but afternoon (1-8pm). This happens all the time to me including the time I needed a book for class desperately. They could have really saved me a lot of time (and their time) if they just let me pick it up, but they wouldn't let me when I called UPS. They kept on saying "SurePost." Im still giving it 5 stars mainly for the item. Maybe that's how shipping has always been done, and I'm the one who just doesn't know it.
This is a good introduction to the field.  The real test of a book like this, is to go into a wilderness, and see how it works.  One begins to appreciate old Boy Scout handbooks, which were surprisingly good prior to the 1970's and 80's, and other old books.  I wouldn't see it as an ultimate guide- an ultimate guide would be like 800 pages long.  This is a fantastically good introduction, though.
This is a fantastic book- as far as it goes.  For long term survival, one needs more.
Very clear, detailed instructions on almost any survival situation you might find yourself in. The medical and food/water acquisition sections are particularly excellent.
This is the best survival book to carry in your kit or take hiking/camping.  It is a very pocket sized book so it will go anywhere.  Book is full of very useful and life saving information.
Bought this for my granddaughter, and I was really impressed with the way the complex story was condensed so a 5-yr old can understand it, and also with the quality of the illustrations.
My 10 year old is loving these books
This is a wonderful story with broad applications.  I am using it in a kids' book club with a wide range of elementary students.  Students are taking turns reading it aloud, and even the kids at lower reading levels are captured by the adventures, and therefore try harder.
Awesome Book
good info. its a keeper
Loved this book! Learned so much. Everyone should read at least once. Especially if you like being outdoors as much as I do.
A must read if the SHTF ever happens. This book can quite literally save your life. It can feed you, keep you warm and help you avoid the bad people. Easy to read and I got one for each of my grown kids because I love them.
This is what I'll be speed reading if D R Trump becomes Presendente.
Fantastic product. Worked exactly as described. Shipping was fast. Packaged nicely. Great seller, great product.
Great little book with lots of information
Beautiful, magical story that my children loved.
Great Product!
I had seen half the movie and wanted to know the rest.  It was well written and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  C.S. Lewis, himself, said that when we get old we'll pull the fairy tales off the shelf and enjoy them again.  My only regret is that the fine illustrations weren't bigger.
U haven't read this book since elementary school. It was always one of my favorites. 2o years later I decided to re read the book. I still enjoyed it very much but had forgotten about the narrators voice through out the book.
I have wanted to read this for a while, and it was a lot of fun. I would like to read the rest of the series now.
The classic CS Lewis! Need I say more?
The story unfolds through the vivid descriptions and you could almost imagine yourself at the scene. The scene of Aslan's death was the lowest point of the entire story and I especially love how it was written as the author brought me through an emotional journey.
After reading this book, my testosterone levels spiked, i grew a beard overnight and started to sleep with my eyes open. This book will get you a girlfriend and so much attention by females. Beware read carefully.
great book , very informative. lots to learn
There is lots of good info in here, and it's laid out well. Easily understood, and good reference source-book. I'll be buying the latest version soon, and stick this one in my kit!
Bought this as a gift for my husband.  He read in in 2 days, so I know he liked it!
Great pocket sized little reference.
To say that CS Lewis has written a classical work of, good and evil, right or wrong does not do this work Justice. What he has written, is an allegorical, analytical, narrative for young Christians. And when I use the term young Christians, I'm not talking about the age of the believers, I am speaking of one's Christian maturity. This is a primer, but it is also a textbook, Christian understanding 101.
This was one of the most amazing books I have ever read. The characters were believable because they portrayed personalities of real people. For example Aslan died for his friend just as Jesus died for us. My favorite part was when Aslan  and his army as well as the children came together to kill the White Witch. The Witch though she was going to succeed in killing the children; however their intent was to kill her too. Killing the Witch was only one exciting event that happen. You must read this book it is full of action! By Malik P.
This was one of the most amazing books I have ever read. The characters were believable because they portrayed personalities of real people. For example Aslan died for his friend just as Jesus died for us. My favorite part was when Aslan and his army as well as the children came together to kill the White Witch. The Witch though she was going to succeed in killing the children; however their intent was to kill her. Killing the Witch was only one exciting event that happen. You must read this book it's full of action! By Malik P.
My 5th grader loves this book. It was assigned as a summer read. It truly has kept her attention.
Delightful
Beautiful analogy
This was an amazing find! The book was advertised as in good condition, but came in what I would call excellent condition!
it tells how Edmund, Lucy, Peter, and Susan enter the world of Narnia. The White Which is ruling at the time. Aslan and the kids distroy the White Which and restore Narnia.
My daughter loves this and now had to watch the movie!
Great book with an easy download. My daughter loved it.
I absolutely adore this book. Please, please read it. C.S. Lewis did such an amazing job sculpting each character in their own uniqueness. For instance, Edmund (one of my favorite characters) grows a lot throughout the book. Now, the movies of course portray him as a little brat of a brother to his siblings. But if you read the book, you'll see that Edmund really isn't a bad kid after all. He's just misunderstood and afraid. Peter as well, goes through the growing process. He's a young man with a lot thrown at him: he's living in a new home, his brother is kidnapped, and he's responsible for taking care of his siblings. Now, he has an army to lead in a land he's never traveled.   Narnia is a big place with a book's worth of action. It contains lessons and truths that are true for us all. Character development is captured perfectly and it isn't a bit shy of fantasy and magic. Please read it my friends. It is pure quality.
Both of children really enjoyed this book.
It was a very adventurous book and funny to read.
Classic for a reason!
A story full of mystery and adventure, written for children, but so delightful that adults love it too! This whole series of books teaches good lessons and are very interesting stories.
This is a superb story, primarily designed for children but excellent for adults as well.
I haven't read through the entire book yet but so far I have already learned a lot about different  scenarios and how to handle them
This book covers everything from A to Z on survival I can't recommend it enough it's as good if not better than some of the military manuals
This book covers everything to do with survival! A must for every home.
Wonderful book content. It's made of standard paper, so not waterproof. Easy fix is to put it into a zippered sandwich bag. There you have an idea of it's dimensions, too.
Good for stashing in your backpack- Lots of great tips for surviving under emergency conditions. This book could save your life! Be Prepared if SHTF.
Nothing I can say that hasn't already been said. This book is amazing and very resourceful! I've now ordered about 5 copies for friends and family and intend to buy more in the near future! Great read and strategically informational!
great book to have.
Such a timeless feel to this book.  There are forces of good and of evil at work in the mysterious land of Narnia.  Beautifully woven tale with allegorical undertones.  Through the wilderness, there is separation, sacrifice, and restoration.  The children brave their way through with the assistance of the noble lion and the earthly beavers.  They return to the wardrobe energized, wanting another adventure - and who could blame them?
my son loves it ad much as I did as kid. The book is charming and carches a childs imagination.
Putting any symbolism/references aside, this is a classic book, and I am enjoying reading the series with my 8-year-old.
Great Classic novel. Love that is relates to Jesus and his life, love, death for sin and resurrection and his conquering of satan and paradise that is to come at his return...so many readers truly miss Lewis' intent when writing this classic...
Love this book!  The kiddos in my classroom are loving it too!
Tantalizingly tangy and ever so simple!  No recent cookbook has set my family into such a tizzy!  The intermingling of herbs and honey (try different flavors for even more interest) with balsamic vinegar take your tastebuds and olifactory into a spin that may never be recovered from.  One taste and you will be won over!
All the info needed in a size I can put in my Evac Bag
Perfect book
GREAT  WOULD  REPURCHASE
It has all the info I need. Great book.
Great Book!
Very informative and thorough, especially great for a novice.
Perfect size for my Redrock sling bag for my survival go bag., when you don't know or trust the direction and future of the world great back up to your survival knowledge and skills you should already have, and if you have none its understandable if you had to try from scratch.
Great read
Love this book. Read out loud to my four year old. Although she doesn't quite understand it all, she still loved it.
Awesome book!!
Superb book.
Will be on my shelf forever.
Nice book. Thank you
Lewis...
love these books
oh my goodness this is amzing 6 hours ago i finished Narnia the musical as Mr. Tumnus and this book is like wizard of oz (i have aso done it 2times the play) it takes place when 4kids (by age)Peter,Susan,Edmond,and Lucy enter a magic wardrobe and wonder through Narnia along the way they meat Mr/Mrs Beaver Lucy meats a Faun namedMr. Tumnus and gets  Nope i can't say it meanwhile  Edmomd meats the villains White witch Edmond gets kidnapped and they meat Aslan(Major good guy) and Aslan saves the day and the white stag (if you catch him /her you get 3wishes) leads them back too Professors Mannor (Marbelton Mannor) To face the wrath of Mrs. Macready This book is amazing i would pay 50+ $$ for this booj
Loved this little book on my favorite cooking ingredient. Beautiful recipes, lovely photography and would be pefect for your cookbook collection or to give to a friend.
This book had a lot of good information for me. the item was in good shape almost new. It gave me ideas as how to use basamic vinegar in various ways. AS I have not used it in cooking before. great photos.
We've had this book for years and have used many of the recipes. I also love leaving it out when I'm done. Our guests always pick it up and are surprised how much you can do with the vinegar.
I am glad I bought this book.  It has thought me a few things.  Well worth the money spent.
This cookbook is interesting and informative about balsamic vinegar. And the recipes are wonderful. Have tried several and love them all. Highly recommend it.
This book made me fall in love with balsamic vinegar. After reading the story of how this great elixor came to be, I have become an avid fan of its use on and in anything I can think of to mix it with.
Absolutely wonderful book for kids.  It is a short child's version of Narnia in a way.  This is one of those books that got me hooked on reading.
Good product.
Currently reading to my 5 & 8 year old and they're enjoying it just as much as I did at their age. We plan to read the whole series. Each night we read a chapter or two before bed and my 8 year old takes a turn reading to us as well. It has captured our interest and we look forward to reading together each night.
Great classic - a fine addition to my digital collection.!
Read with my 9 year old daughter. She loved it. Was easy to read with enough complexity to enhance her reading abilities. On to the next book.
I see something new or in a different way every time I read it.  This time was probably 7 or 8.
This book has an insane amount of knowledge and it's really useful, even as a reference, even if you know everything in it
Good book.  Smaller than I thought it would be but then again, helps with portability
Great resource for backpacking, hiking, or survival. Very comprehensive. It never hurts to know this stuff.
Be sure to notice that this is a small book. Smaller than my hand. I did not realize that when purchasing it, so I was surprised when it arrived! The size is good though. Perfect for popping into a survival backpack!  I have bought two of them: one for me and one for my boyfriend's 12-year-old son (who loved it so much that he took it to school and showed it to his friends before someone stole it).
This is the "go to" guide for survival information.  This version is easy to carry and read on the go.
This is a lovely copy of this book. I am reading it aloud to my son who is in 4th grade this year before bedtime. He is loving it. It is a complete classic. I think I may try and find the next ones in the series in this style with the old fashioned drawings included. I would highly recommend this book as it a real gem.
I'm soo happy this book looks very new and is just the greatest!!!!
I use books on CD when I travel alone for trips lasting up to several hours.  This production was a delightful companion!
I love C.S. Lewis! This is a fantastic story!
Never get tired of reading this!
A re-read of my childhood favorite. I don't think I had read this book since elementary school, so it was nice to read again as an adult. Still an enjoyable read!
Classic!
thanks
Full of very valuable information for any survival situation. Because it's a full size book it's too heavy to carry in my packs but I'm going to try to find the small older versions to carry with me at all times.
I couldn't wait to finish the book. It was well plotted. It included detail, dialogue and suspense. I've gone on to read others in the series.
I love this book. I have had no problem with the download. My favorite thing is my kids love this book too. It's awesome when kids love the same thing you did as a kid.
Chronicles of Narnia is always a must read.
This is a MUST HAVE book to keep with you at all times!!!
Love it! The size is perfect for throwing into your backpack and having it on hand during camping. Is very relevant and easy to understand. If you are going into the woods, even for hiking, then gets this now! Just click to add it to you cart and buy it! Trust me, you won't be disappointed. Don't listen to the naysayers.
Perfect size for taking anywhere. Full of great info just like all the other versions
Excellent book. Invaluable information
lot of good info in this handy little book.  Highly recommend it .
Very pleased with product
I'll never forget the first time I read Narnia. My parents got the 7-book set as a gift one Christmas, back over 30 years ago when I was a boy. And I was instantly hooked. What a great series! Lewis is a genius.
Exactly what we wanted.
A great story for my children. The Chronicles of Narnia never disappoints. Thanks
Excellent book.
The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is a fantasy novel about the four Pevensie children:  Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy.  The children are sent to live in the countryside to escape the aerial bombings of London during World War II, and they end up staying at a professors huge, mysterious home.  During a game of hide-and-seek, Lucy runs away to a beautiful old wooden wardrobewhich just happens to contain a secret entrance to a magical world called Narnia!  The other children soon come with her, and they discover that the evil White Witch has cast a spell which made it winter in Narnia forever.  The Pevensie children are befriended by a series of talking animals, and they quickly begin plotting to overthrow the White Witch and her army of monsters!  With the help of a lion named Aslan, the children put their bravery to the test in a struggle to save the world of Narnia.  Let me warn you now, though, if you start in on this book then I guarantee youll end up reading all six of the other books in the Narnia series.  The books are all interconnected, and I love the way that all of them follow the Pevensie children as they grow up in both the world of Narnia and back home in England.  Ive read this book several times throughout my life, and as I got older I learned that C.S. Lewis was actually using these stories to pass along different ideas from his Christian faith.  How cool is that, having a hidden message within the books!  Also, I heard that Mr. Lewis was inspired to write about the winter forest setting when he was a professor at Magdalen College.  He would spend his afternoons staring out the window of his office and watching the snow collect around a solitary lamppost, which he later used as the first major landmark the children see upon entering the world of Narnia!  Take a moment to look around your own neighborhood.  Are there any particular objects near your home or school that you're particularly attached to?  Do you think itd be possible to build a story, or maybe even an entire world, around them?
Perfect introduction to the Narnia books for young children.
A true classic! Perfect for children and young adults.
We first found this book when my wife was pregnant with our second child. Her OB had brought some children's books from home for the examining rooms. From the moment our daughter (age 3 at the time) saw this book, she was captivated. In fact, one day when we saw a different doctor in the practice, our daughter asked for the room with "Aslan". She enjoyed it so much, that we made it must when Christmas came. The book is abridged, but still does an excellent job at staying true to the original story. Beautifully illustrated, it is an wonderful way to introduce children to the "marvel and mystery of that evermore magical landNarnia".
Perfect size for carrying along.
Excellent info! Fits into pocket of pants or backpack.  However, the book is small which makes the print even TINIER!!!  So... Bring along your magnifying lens!
Excellent Book, great information.
This book has become my wilderness bible. There is a large amount of information condensed within the pages. Small enough to carry and broad enough to be helpful in a plethora of situations. It is not a novel so reading cover to cover is not needed, but take plenty of time to become familiar with the sections of the book that are directly relevant to your current situation; but also take the time to become familiar with the remainder of the content. There is a good balance of description to diagrams to help compress the information. The tone of the writing is encouraging yet serious; this book deals with not dying and the reality is there is a lot of things that will kill you, the author does a good job relaying the reality of the scenario. If I had to bug-out this would be the one book I would take with me, no questions asked.
This book is packed full of helpful information. You can open it up to any page and find some great tips for everyday life, camping, hiking or any other outdoor activity of your choosing. I definitely enjoyed the tips on how to check to see if a plant is dangerous or not.
Lots of great information, on all facets of survival.
Awesome! Small and easy to carry around when and if I need it! Great information too!
This books gives you idea on how to be prepared in different environment. Very informative and easy to learn. I've read some survival books and for me this one is the best.
I watched the movie as a kid but never read the book. Now, at age 20 I have read it.. and I highly recommend this book to every kid and adult.
The greatest series of fantasy books and the greatest series of children's literature ever. Lewis has left an unforgettable legacy that children and adults will love: The story of how a Lion saved Narnia from a witch and how four children were transformed into heroes.
When I read this for the first time as a kid, I thought how wonderfully bizarre it was. I still reread it to this day,
Good quality book. Fast delivery.
Beautiful book, wonderful, gorgeous illustrations. This is going to become an heirloom
ery good information,  but the type is hard to read
If you are a fan of Isabel Allende this is a must read. On the other hand if you hold her in disfavor, for some reason, stay well away. This is Allende at her best. If you have never read any of her work this is a fine  place to start. It isn't quite up to The Infinity Play, but a cut above  some of her other work Let's just hope they don't try to make a movie of  it.
Excellent book, as I expected!
Amazing! It is a book my kids have read more than once...
...It's the bible of survival. If you don't have it, get it. Well worth the price.
I am still reading it, but there is some very good information in this book. Many things the common guy would not think of. While I don't relish the idea of having to live in the outdoors full time, I would want this book in my bag if I was faced with that situation.
Just received it and quick flipped through it. Lots  and lots of good info. Gonna try some of the cool stuff it has in it just for practice
Great book bought because of content and size, fits in back pack
If you are thinking of going into the woods or find your self on the streets this book you need to read. It will tell you what you need to pack and what to watch for and show you things to survive in the crazy times we are coming to.
This is really good, but very small print.  I put a business card size Fresnel lens in it to help with reading and for fire starting.
Great read for any one interested in survival skills.
If you are serious about being prepared, then you should have one for every member of your family! I purchased several of these and placed the in each of my family members' emergency bag.
A masterpiece of a children's story that still evokes wonder and emotion after so many decades. It has depths for both adults and children.
Great book! Worth the read. I look forward to reading the rest of the C.S. Lewis books in this series.
Great book to read with the kids. Mine loved every moment of the book. It didn't drag on at all.
One of my daughter's favorite books.
Beautiful story
I am 10 years old, and I am a 5th grader. I think people ages 10  13 should read Narnia.  The children enter the world of Narnia, and they find out that a witch is ruling the world. Find out what happens next!  There is historic language in the book. Heres an example: Madam, therein I pray thee to have me excused. For never since we four Kings and Queens in Narnia have set our hands to any high matter, as battles, quests, feats of arms, acts of justice, and the like and then given over; but always what we have achieved.  I love this book. I watched the movie, but the book includes more details which makes it great. I recommend you read the book first then watch the movie.
Great book!  My daughter loves it even though it was a class assigned reading.  Great to find books kids can't put down.
An all time favorite story. Glad to be able to share it with my daughter.
Worth reading
This book is well-written, complex and very thought-provoking.
Isabel Allende's novels are always a treat and this one especially so.  She has the ability to think about how a girl grows into womanhood, how her ideas change across time, how she can become a better person than the women she was surrounded with as a child.  This is the story of a woman from Chile who managed to take a ship to California during the gold rush seeking a man she thought of as her lover.  You cannot even imagine how it ends.
Page turner with fascinating insights into a part of history I knew very little about. The fact that its told from a woman and minority group view made it that more interesting.
Isabel has an easy flowing dialogue, easy to read. She incorporates many historical instances that help the story proceed and add ai richness to the story line!
Isabel Allende out did herself!
Allende's prose is poetic, but what really makes her novels great is the characters. She takes you through Eliza's life as well as the history of both Chile and California. She doesn't shy away from difficult subjects, and the pictures she paints can be heart-breakingly beautiful or heart-wrenchingly awful. Either way, they are real and true. I didn't want this one to end, and I'd love to read another about any of these characters.
The most famous and favorite of most Lewis fans.
It was an interesting story that everyone can enjoy
C.S. LEWIS was a man of conviction to use his literary talents to show case the Love, Grace and Mercy of God.  I read the Chronicles of Narnia series as a child and now as a man of fifty five years of age, I'm reading it again with excitement and joy.
Amazing
Fantastic book teaching morals and life lessons.
Great book. My kids loved it.
classic. how can you go wrong?
Very good. If you like her style you'll like this one.
I loved all of it, you never go wrong with Isabel Allende. Very informative about the California gold rush days. Its been so glorified by so many books, then pretty much tells the truth and you actually feel the griddiness of it all, would highly recommend it.
I am taken into a different world that is strange and captivating- Chile and then the California Gold Rush!  Her characters become so real it's like you know them. Could not wait to read each day.
The books of Isabel Allende are impossible for me to put down.  She pulls me into the lives and cultures of all her characters. A true artist.  Thank you for all your books!
A wonderful yarn, believable historic settings, interesting cultural contrasts, delightfully unbelievable adventures!
There is never a boring moment in an Allende novel. Her ability to plot the layers of her characters lives, unfolding them event by event, insight by insight is unmatched.
Awesome!
I ordered this SAS Survival Guide, because my brother told me this was one of the best ones to get. He has one for is backpack. I ordered mine and my fiancee's for our go bags. This is a nice book to have in case of an emergency. This book would be great for hiking, fishing, hunting, camping or backpacking also, so that if you got lost, run out of food or wanted to stay longer, it can show you what you can and cannot eat and other different tricks to stay outside in any climate condition. This book is very handy, it is small and easy to store in you backpack, it barley takes up any room.  This book has many different helpful tips like how to build a fire, how to build shelter, how to build weapons to find food or protect yourself and many more things. It even has pictures of the different plants and berries you can and cannot eat and things that you should stay away from. It has pictures of ways to tie knots and build shelter also. I am very impressed with this book I just skimmed through my brothers book but now that I have my own I have got to learn more about it. I liked it so much I ordered 2! I would highly recommend this to anyone, because it is very helpful!
I am a dedicated camper and hiker. I also go on extended hunting trips that puts me in the deep woods in winter conditions. This book is a must have as I have seen the weather change dramatically in as little as an hour.
Great!
Great book for BOB and EDC bag.
pocket size is great!!! i really love that the pages are waterproof. perfect for keeping in your pack while camping or hiking.
wonderful book alot of info...thanks
Great Book as always by CS Lewis
Four siblings stumble into a magical world through a wardrobe. They meet magical talking creatures, an evil witch and learn that love always wins. This is truly classic literature at its best. Although a children's book it's so well written and engaging that any age reader will enjoy it.
I read this book (2 to 3 chapters a night) to my kids.  It was amazing to watch their faces as they followed the story, especially before they knew if a "witch" or "queen" or "both"... how fun.  The book provided enough twists and turns to capture the young mind and keep my adult attention.  The undercurrent of good verses evil, a good lesson for kids (and us adults to).  Loved it.  When done, we watched the movie.
Excellent !!
It is a classic but even better timeless. You can read this book two ways perhaps depending where find yourself. 1)  It's pure Peter Pan style childhood fantasy. It is good, fun, and beyond magical childhood fiction that will  develop a love and passion for adventure. And 2) it is deep moral life transformational and even spiritual. Take which way you like but either way it is rich with joy and inspiration.
I enjoyed reading it and since I'm a Christian I recogized all the Christian analogies. A book to read to my future children.
Wonderfully written!  Short, delightful fairy tale made almost believable!
Beautiful story.
This is an excellent book!! The life of an orphaned baby girl raised by a wealthy merchant family in Chile mid-1800's is filled with all the sights, smells, and sensual feelings of the era as the author takes the story from Chile to the Gold Rush Era of San Fransisco and Sacramento, California. The descriptions of a suffocating life for women and girls of the times are so well done I felt I'd been there whether aboard ship or living the hardened life of the miners. It's a fascinating story which opened my eyes to the many cultures and races that settled this California area with all its unity and extreme racial prejudice all balled into one very unique society. The customs of various South Americans, Native Americans, Mexicans, Chinese, North Americans, Russians, Australians, English to name some are touched on as they form the army of argonauts who we now call the California Gold Rush population. Amazing story where several lives intertwine love, hate and desparation.  A definite must-read to lovers of historical fiction.
Very well written, authentic, kept my interest. Very informative about the Gold Rush days
Wonderful story, beautifully developed characters and just an excellent read.
Interesting historical information interwoven into a compelling story line.
It is a page turner.  I like the way she develops her characters.
Love Isabel Allende...great characters, interesting plot..and enough magic to satisfy,
I read House of the Spirits years ago and loved it so I wanted to see if Daughter of Fortune would stand the test of time. I loved it. Eliza is my kind of woman with a great spirit of adventure.  She is fearless.
I thoroughly enjoyed it and am enjoying all of the C.S.Lewis books.  Lot of food for thought!
came in just a few days and in great condition!
This representation of Christianity, with Aslan, the lion, as Jesus, cannot be rated lower than five star, especially by Christians. It is the best story of our salvation ever told.
Arrived very quick. Great copy no missing pages.
Exactly what I ordered.
Thanks, the book is in excellent conditions
I read this to my son via FaceTime while he visited with family abroad. He listened to me read about the wardrobe and the faun and the White Witch and Edmunds's treachery and Aslan's forgiveness and ultimately we both fell into the story and were connected through it. I don't know that there could have been a more immersive, imaginative story to share while he spent a few weeks in old Europe. And I remembered falling in love with Narnia as a child and am so delighted that it is truly timeless.
Allende is a writer whose words hold the reader.  The book wove history with a tale.  A pleasure to read.
If you have not read this book you must! Have read it , kept it on the shelf for a re-read! Excellent!
This book is very easy to get in to. Once you start reading, it's hard to put down. I love it
I read this years ago and re-read it recently...Allende rules.
One of the best books I've read. I was so disappointed when it ended! The characters came to life and you were cheering for them from the beginning.
I had a lot of fun reading this book. It's a great world to imagine yourself in full of talking animals, magic wands, and sword fights.
Easy reading for a sixth grader.
I loved it. It was amazing I couldn't put it down! It was the best book I've ever read in my life
First off, if you're new to the Chronicles of Narnia, do yourself a favor and read this before any of the others. Forget the "2" that shows on this book as currently published and read these in the original publication order.  By looking at this as the first installment of the series, this book is a wonderful first adventure into Narnia. Seeing this world for the first time through the wardrobe on that fateful day of hide and go seek is a joy.  Entertaining for adults, but written for children, if you haven't done yourself the favor, read it now!  On the Kindle Edition, the illustrations all appear very nicely and remind me of the paperbacks from long ago.
Engaging and thought provoking for everyone from 5 to 105! (I just finished reading it to my 5  year old grandson--we, and HE!, went until 11 pm to do so!).
Great book. You will enjoy a nice long read, well written with multiple story lines that come together in the end. I read a lot and seldom comment on books because not all make much of an impression. This one is worth reading.
I learned a lot about India and Pakistan by reading this book. It's outstanding.
This book is a fascinating and deeply moving account of one of the seminal events in world history, the emergence of India and Pakistan as sovereign nations.  Collins and LaPierre, in their infinitely researched, nuanced account of the independence of the Indian subcontinent, relate their story in prose that approaches the lyrical rhythm of poetry. Some may take issue with the point of view of the account, insisting that it is written primarily from the British line of sight, but regardless of any bias, it so beautifully and successfully relates the stories of those in the highest seats of power and the impact of their often wrenching decisions on the common person.  I have always held that in order for history to teach us, it must be delivered in a form that seduces us into understanding it.  By developing the characters whom most of us already know - Gandhi, Nehru, Mountbatten, Jinnah, Churchill - we find ourselves in the venues of the account as quiet observers as the die is cast to deliver India to its destiny.  The book underscores the power of language, with excerpts from the inimitable speeches delivered extemporaneously by Nehru, in quick succession, upon the birth of the nation, and ultimately the death of its father.  It is also a cautionary tale for the present, by showing so clearly how false distinctions between people, riven by such things as religion, wealth, and power, can so readily cause diverse communities living in harmony for centuries to shatter the peacefulness of their coexistence and turn on each other in abhorrent communal violence at a moment's notice, leaving us stunned and questioning our humanity.  Perhaps this understanding can encourage us not to repeat this insanity.  A marvelous book - highly recommended.
The most well written and historically accurate book on the partitioning of India
great book
Brilliant!
too bad the rest of the series is SO overpriced.
Indeed, I have long grown out of childhood, but nevertheless I will still re-read the The Chronicles of Narnia. I especially love to read the first book of Chronicles. From the very first lines, writer and humanist C. S. Lewis immerses the reader into the fantastic and beautiful world. In this book, the author has embodied many of our childhood fantasies. The Wardrobe becomes a portal to the country of Narnia and we along with the characters begin to participate directly in the struggle of good against evil. This is a very fascinating and useful reading. I am sure that the Chronicles of Narnia are designed for people of all ages.
Gave this to my niece because it is a Christian based book, she loved it and so did her parents.  Excellent book for all ages and of the ages.
Great book for all ages highly recommend
A most excellent book. The whole series! This is my second or third time through. Always a treat. Thank you.
Wonderful Story.
This is the best book EVER!!!!!!
Great read
Beautiful descriptive prose and outstanding characters.
Another fine book by Isabel Allende. She's a winner!
Compellingly written with fascinating insights into the history of California and Chile. Well drawn characters.
This is a book well worth a second read, which I did to further appreciate Portrait in Sepia. Doing so I discovered and re-discovered the story telling genius of Isabel Allende. The California gold rush history refresher made it good, but the inspiring story of a woman brave enough to pose as a boy/man under incredibly dangerous circumstances and thereby finding her own strength and independence, makes these books must reads for young women today who don't realize the price orhers have paid for the independence they're  throwing away.
Allende is a great writer.  The story is complex and historical. I plan to read more of her writing.
This is an excellent, classic book for kids and adults. The entire series so imaginative but also so honest; it doesn't spare any punches. I read it every few years and get something new from it every time!
Love this story and love the way this book is abridged for younger readers - enough of the story to keep it true to the original but short enough to keep young ones' attention. My 4 year old loves me reading this to her! Beautiful illustrations. I only wish they had one of these for each of the Narnia books!
Great book
One of the great all time classics of children literature. Important moral lessons given through a beautifully written story that engages the mind and the imagination.
A classic for a reason...
This book is amazing if your child is creative and imaginative
My 12 year old son really enjoyed this book. He said he liked it better than the movie and it helped explain alot of the confusing scenes that the movie leaves out. He was confused a bit with some of the  "English" phrases, and had to ask for some clarification, from time to time. But he liked asking his great grandparents for clarification, because he said he liked hearing the stories and histories from their past lives.
Love love love all the original illustrations! Even better than when I read it as a child.
So a great performance. My children, 6&3, were completely captivated. This was the first book on CD we've tried and I'm so glad I chose it. They are hooked and wanting more. Exactly what I wanted to happen!
Wonderful book.  One of the very best I have ever read, and I read a lot of history and biography.  Has you laughing out loud one minute and gasping in horror the next.
Great read!!
The research done by the author's is mind boggling. Each character irrespective whether he or she had a positive or negative role has been portrayed with utmost detail without any bias or prejudice. The best part in my view is the effort taken to understand all Stars in this plot and most importantly Gandhi and Mountbatten.
It is a great book.  This is my second copy of the book.
It was the way I had expected.
I don't intend to read the book right away, I just wanted to have it and they're getting scarce.  I also have "Oh Jerusalem" and "Is Paris Burning" (which I have read) by these authors and I love their excellent journalism.  The used book was in perfect condition, but it didn't have the dust jacket cover, which is disappointing.
Good and efficient delivery, thanks.
I gave it as a present . I did read the book many years ago and I loved it.
The book arrived within a week, and was in excellent condition.  The book covers a wide variety of subjects, including finding and securing water from various sources different environments, or choosing a good knife, and dealing with various medical situations - even emergency childbirth. The SAS handbook is well written, with clear instructions and explanations that even inexperienced persons can understand. The sections concerning safe and poisonous plants, animals, etc have full color illustrations, but most of the book's images are black and white. However, the black and white images are easy to read, and therefore it is not a problem.  Since this book covers so much material, even having read it, a person could pick it up and learn (or relearn) something new every time.  This book was well worth the cost, and I am glad to have it.
very infomtive , simple to under stand
Grreat! It was a tiny gift for a friend and he loves it!
the best survival book. a fascinating read of medicines, basic survival, edible plants, everything to be your own Survivor. Everyone needs to know this stuff- it puts you back in touch with who you are as a human being.
Excellent book and very small in size so it doesn't take up much space.
Little bit bulky. Otherwise cool little book.
came fast and was exactly what i wanted !!
This was one of my favorite books as a child, I loved that they included the illustrations that were in my old set.
This series of books is a Classic! Reading this series to my grandchildren, after a certain battle, my 9 year old grandson's response was, "Wow, that was epic."  Can't get a better review than that.
Well, Narnia. You can`t help but love those books. The delivery was very fast too and I`m very pleased.
Classic C.S. Lewis tale, this narrative will capture and keep your attention for the duration of the story.  Excellent narrator, makes the story come to life.
Just finished reading it to my 7 year old girls.  We all loved it!
Engaging story even though it is something of a fairy tale. I found it engaging.
I have been intending to read this for years and glad I finally did. C.S. Lewis has always been a favorite author
Fantastic book!
I first read this book when I was 9 years old and then lost track of it until I was in my 20's and a church group studied the whole Narnia series.  I was delighted to rediscover the book,  It can be read as a charming children's book, or one can go deeper and see all the Christian symbolism.  Either way, it is a delightful book.
Awesome book, think it needs a sequel!
Moving, Breathtaking, satisfying, colorful - I felt like I was completely immersed in another world and in other people's lives. I loved the story so much. I loved the amazingly beautiful prose. I loved the love stories and the incredibly complex and yet undeniably truthful depictions of humanity in the tumultuous gold rush time. Everything was incredible. I feel like I've just been enlightened.
Beautiful story,
I loved this book. It had an interesting plot with great characters. I also learned about Chile, California gold rush, English culture and Chinese culture. The ending was terrific. I had to call a couple friends to talk about the book.
A captivating way to hear stories of India and Pakistan, especially at the point at which they went from an unresolved quagmire of cultures and communities under British rule to two separate countries.
Book in very good shape...just as described...thank you!
FANTASTIC BOOK
Right book for people looking into reading about partition of India
Fantastic story
i would like to see this book in kindle format.
This is a fabulous book that lays out the history of one of the most interesting and challenging periods in the dissolution of the British Empire at the end of the Second World War. It is replete with all the larger than life characters who lived this adventure. It is a must read for anyone curious about the history of Modern India and the roots of the present day tensions between India and Pakistan.
Awesome story!
As described- great quality used library book. My 6-year-old was captivated!
i absolutely loved this book. it had me from the very beginning. i let my mom read it and she isn't thrilled with it. sorry mom. i love it.
Great book. I am from California, and have visited Chile, so it was neat to read this historical fiction about both places. I think it would be highly engaging regardless, though. Allende's writing is colorful and like intricately woven threads creating a tapestry. Thoroughly enjoyable, from start to finish.
A very enjoyable read. Historical and eventful.
I love everything Isabel Allende writes I've read every book she's written , so yes I give this book 5 stars.
I loved it. Allende writes from a place of deep female understanding
This is currently being read and I find it fascinating. Well written in great detail I am fascinated by the details of how Britain relinquished its rule over India. If you are interested in recent historical events that changed the world this is a must read book.
One of the greatest books I have ever read. It's a comprehensive guide to the history of the subcontinent. While way too apologetic for the British Raj, not enough can be said about its clarion presentation of the real, difficult, and desperate events that preceded and followed the partitioning of India. Truly, this is one of the world's best written histories in the English language.
This is a most important book for those who are interested in Indian independence, the confusion, wrangling, warring, carnage and noble struggle that took place in 1947. It even gets into the private love affairs of some of the most important participants. If one wants to know the details of what caused the greatest migration in human history this is the book for you.
So rich with first hand accounts of what happened at the time. It reads like a novel and is very elegantly written... but these events really did happen. Very engaging, very educational and well worth a read!
The story of that other partition - India 1947, a year before Israel/Palestine ... featuring Lord Mountbatten, the last Viceroy, and his vivacious Lady Edwina, in India to try to bring the British Raj to an honorable conclusion; the gaunt, sophisticated and secularistic Muslim Mohammed Ali Jinnah, for the newborn Pakistan vs. dynamic, dashing Jawaharlal Nehru of the new India's Hindu Congress Party; and then there's Mahatma Gandhi who entirely opposes partition. The authors' account of Gandhi's hunger strike to restore peace in Calcutta is a deeply suspenseful, awe-inspiring high point of this extremely entertaining work - which deserves another printing! Huge, bloody, romantic, poignant, oddly little-known episode of influential recent history - while to this day, the matter of Kashmir remains unresolved.
Really a very good book ... lots of history
Great for use with reluctant and below average readers.
We love this story in my house.
The chronicles of Narnia will never get old. I make sure to read them again from time to time and find something new in them each time. I would encourage everyone to read the whole series.
Great picture book!
My son loves it!!
Great classic book, loved by the adults and children alike.
Magical & wonderful.  I loved having it read to me, I loved reading it myself, and most of all I love reading it to my own children now.
I've always loved this book! I'm loving it more now than ever because I'm reading the series to my 5 year old.
I read this book years ago, along with most of Lapierre's and Collins' other great books. But, I recently spent 3 weeks in India and felt compelled to read this massive, but important story. If a history book can be called a page turner, this is it. Just the preface and the story of how detailed the research was is worth reading and re-reading. And, considering the on-going territorial face off with Pakistan, this book provides context to the issue. Lastly, the disapora that took place after independence, is a lesson for all 'nation builders', and serves as a caution signal for the countries in the former Warsaw Pact.
I am reading this book now.  I can not put it down.  It is wonderfully written.  Truly a must read for anyone interested, or visiting India.  Amazing read.
One of my favorite books EVER!!!!  Great story... interesting from the start.  And- part 2 (Portrait in Sepia)  -- keeps you going too! Love this author..  I can't comprehend why this did not get 5 stars from everyone.  I buy this book for friends because I love it so much
Great book, packed with emergency survival info.
Great survival book
My hubby and I were excited to get this survival book. It's a great basic book for your "wig out" or "get out" bag. My husband really liked the different fire pits and ways to cook. I appreciated the edibles section, as in local harvest. Not only is it important to know what you can eat and how best to cook it in an emerging situation, but what to stay away from!  Hey, if you got to get out quick every chapter covers different survival needs for different climates.
I thought this might be too "old style" to interest my children - who are hard sells when it comes to books.  I was wrong.  Both my 8 and 10 year olds love this book.  It's an enchantment - without the ubiquitous and boring princesses found in fairytales.
BOOM! BOOM! It was war, four children named Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy had to move. They hurried on to the train. Hay this book is about four kids that end up in a magical world that comes from a wardrobe. If I was there I would be really freaked out. I would be freaked out because its a magical world. All the kids had to go to an old mans house and he was really weird just like his house all the rooms were empty. Well one day all the kids were playing hide and seek one of them hid in a wardrobe then it all happened and everything changed. In one part somebody told somebody something that they didn't think they were going to say. I really didn't like the beginning of the book. Really what happened in the middle was all the kids end up in a different place and met different creatures and have battles and they meet someone that hasn't been in that place in a long time. I liked the parts when they were at battle. I loved the middle of the story. I didn't like Edmund in that part though. Something or someone came and helped the kids defeat someone or something that is  evil and one of the kids got hurt its  kind of dangerous. I loved the ending it had a lot of action. I just didn't like the sad parts. People should read this book, Its interesting and it has a lot of action. This book will teach you that when things are bad you can always achieve. Just saying this book is probably for 8 and older. Hay go read this book its awesome you would probably love it if you like action and adventure go get this book at a library or go by it.
Isabel Allende is a wonderful story teller and this book kept me captured thru the whole book.
engaging story, interesting historical backdrop.
Delightful and fascinating read, full of rich characters, melodious prose, and historical details.  Loved it and will read more by Allende!
This is a wonderful captivating story that sucked me in from the first page. From the first moment I met her, I wanted Eliza Sommers to win over her circumstances and become happy. Chilean by birth but adopted by an English mother, Eliza falls for a lover from the wrong class and follows him to California in the Gold Rush days. There she meets Tao Chi'en, a Chinese doctor who saves her life. Their friendship makes her stronger and start to question and redefine herself. A great story about self-discovery, love, and so much more. Awesome cast of characters, compelling plot -- definitely wanted to read more about Tao Chi'en!
I read this book over 10 years ago and it still haunts me.  Allende created a remarkable woman, yet one with whom many average women can relate with.
Very well researched and written like a historical novel. It portrays the significant characters of those times in detail without being boring and allows the reader to understand events in their historical context. Must-read for anyone interested in the region
I read this book a decade or so ago, but it has been coming back to my mind recently -- apparently simply because it made such an impact and I now have a medium (Amazon) in which to express my appreciation of it. It is an impressive book in every way: an epic story, with gripping narrative, about extraordinary events and characters. I had had no conception of the monstrous tragedy of the partition of India from Pakistan. This book not only describes its true dimensions, but also makes clear how circumstances can force such absurd things to occur. Much of the book is a biography of Gandhi, and here I could only marvel at the power and authority of this man, and -- on top of everything else -- be riveted by the assassination story in all its detail that I had not known about. Whether there are more accurate accounts of these matters, I am not in a position to say. I can only report that I found this book completely satisfying in multiple respects: as history, as biography, as narrative. At least for a non-expert I can't imagine how it could disappoint as a book, however distressing (and, alas also, timely) its subject matter may be.
This is a detailed and well informed description of the events and the people that brought forth the independence of the great country that is India.  It is a story of perseverance during difficult times and there is much in it of the life of Gandhi and his love for his country and its people. It is a story of a great mind, a great soul, diplomacy and humanity. I highly recommend this classic.
Anyone wanting to learn about India has to read this book.  It gives a superb accounting of the events leading up to the emergence of India and Pakistan. If you are planning a trip to India, it's a must read. Delighted I was able to find it as it is out of print.
I am not sure How to review this book.  About the Book ***** (5 Star) Kindle Edition 0 (Worst)  About the Book. Book can be summed up in one sentence - "Every Indian Must Read It Once" The Story of India during the transfer of power from British, Division, Riot and the sacrifice of the greatest human being that lived and died. Detailed. Authentic with master writing.  About Kindle Edition This is the worst of Kindle edition I have read and Paid for. Too many spelling mistake but some of the biggest problems.  1. Words are split and wrong point. Useless spaces make it difficult to read. something like: T hi sis w ha ty ou may g etwhen re adin g fr eedo mat mid ni gh t. 2. Drop Case Problem. The first letter of chapter appears on a different line than the rest of the words. 3. Annotations and Footnote. I don't understand why annotation and footnote are not written as annotation and footnote as per ebook standard. Its written just as plain text and because the page size is not fix foot note beocmes annoying.  Please update it
One for the most amazing books on the independence of Pakistan and India. This gives all the intriguing details of the main characters.  Tragic, uplifting.  A GREAT read!
Collins and LaPierre never fail to put the reader right into the midst of the story... they do more than write words, they use words to paint pictures. The book put the movie Ghandi into perspective, was highly informative, yet also very entertaining to read. This was an Amazon Verified Purchase and worth every penny.
A friend recommended this book on the India/Pakistan split in 1947.  Incredibly writing and totally engaging.  My only regret is not reading more about the actual negotiations between the parties.
My favorite type of book is a well researched, accurate history that is well written and entertaining as well.  Unfortunately, there aren't that many.  This is one of my all-time favorites - the sweeping tale of the transition of India from colonial rule to independence, the larger-than-life characters, the implications for struggles for social justice for the remainder of the century.  You will come away well informed and thoroughly entertained as well.
I read Burmese Translation during my high school days around 11 years ago. It is a great book..I am even sure how many times i read it. Recommended to Anyone..!
My passion is historic related books, this have been one of the best ones I've read. The details the authors are able to give while having a smooth and easy read is incredible.  After this book is a must to buy the Red Sari.  II would say that in the west most people have little knowledge of the two biggest countries in the world India and China, the better we understand their history and their thinking it will be possible to understand why they act or do things differently.  Understanding that there could be two different and valid angles to see the same problem will help us all have a better world. For China a must is Wild Swan, most of the real story of Mao is not known by the world.
Awesome
Like the heading says, this book provides everything you need know about survival. The handbook is very informative, it has some sections about building shelters, making fires, finding food, making weapons, and plenty more. This book is a must-have for apocalypse preppers or people who just want to learn more about survival.
First everyone should know, this book is HEAVY!  3.5 lbs (just be aware)  The content is absolutely amazing! Lol, it covers just about everything to do with survival.  I would like to have seen more plant stuff in this though.
This looks to be a very informative piece of work. Would highly recommend it.
This is a must have item. For camping, bug out bag or what ever. This pocket size book covers just about everything to save your butt in an emergency.
loved the book my husband doesn't put it down...
Six hundred and some odd pages , WOW this book is huge and heavy to carry. This book was written by a man who was in the SAS for 26 years and other survival specialist groups too. Incidentally SAS is the British Special Air Services group. Like our Green Beret in some ways , like Ranger's in other ways. But in all ways great survivalists . I think it's written in a concise way that most people will understand. Even has replications of plants you can eat and those you shouldn't eat. But this is a book you should study and then carry it with you as you will never remember all the information in it .
One of my favorite books ever.  I loved both books, Daughter of Fortune and Portrait in Sepia.  As always Isabel Allende does a wonderful job with her characters.  Whenever I read any of her books I often feel as if I have a friendship with the main characters.  I love her work and this book is one of my favorite stories.
Absolutely compelling story - never wanted it to end.  I learned so much more about the Gold Rush era in California and Chilean history as well.  As usual, Ms. Allende's character development is astounding.  From the first page.  Fascinating read.
Isabel Allende did another fantastic job at writing Daughter of Fortune. She kept increasing my attention with every page of the novel. The novel is part history and part fiction. It was a page-turner. I sent the book to my sister in Puerto Rico, and she was as highly impressed with the novel as I was. Allende provided a superb job at making Chile a more interesting place, and now I view Chile differently. Everybody who reads this novel will become richer by reading it. Nobody will regret adding this novel to their collection!!
A fascinating historical fiction, cross-cultural love story set during the California gold rush, a time when global civilizations first began to truly intermingle on common land. The United States brought a collective of Europeans and slavery to the east coast and a blend of Hispanics, Native American Indians, and South Americans on the west coast, many settlers of whom were chasing liberation on 'unclaimed' land; adventurers willingly seeking out new freedom from the restrictions of their homelands. Allende also brings awareness to the mistreatment and disturbance of the natives during this time who were already established out west by drawing reference to the war with Mexico. Tastefully written mature content brings authenticity to the emotion of the narrative, crafting dynamic characters and story lines. The attention given to the details of the religious, spiritual, medicinal, commerce, and political practices of the time offers a worthwhile reflection on how rapidly our global society has evolved since this not so long ago time.
Like many of us, I remember reading this as a youngster and absolutely loved the story.  Now, as a father of four, it is still just as magical (even better).  Now I am reading the set to my kids and they can't get enough.  Lewis is able to write in a manner which is pleasing for older readers and still able to captivate the youngest audience.  The character development throughout the whole series makes this a very unique set of books that most modern authors are unable to achieve in this day and age.  If your or your children enjoy fantasy, immensely detailed worlds, magic, and a much appreciated underlayment of faith...this is the series for you.  I would highly, highly recommend this entire series for anyone that ever asked the question; "What would be a good book I could read with my kids?"
Every child should read it for the story and fine writing.  Leave the religious symbolism to the adults and religious scholars.
Awesome
Peter, Edmund, Susan, and Lucy are in for a great adventure when they walk into a wardrobe and out into Narnia. They meet a lion named Aslan among many other woodland creatures. They battle the White Witch and are finally crowned kings and queens of Narnia.  I never read The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe growing up. I was never interested in fantasy stories. This one is very enjoyable and a very sweet story. I recommend it for all ages.
The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe still sets the standard. Perfect and timeless. I re-read this book again after many years, and it is as stunning as I remembered.
This series, by C.S. Lewis is fantastic!!! A must read for children...grown-ups too!  Bought for my 9 year old granddaughter and she loves it!
Favorite children's book all time.
Great read!  Hard to put the book down.
I was required to read this book in high school world history.  I have since read it several more times and hope one day to visit Pakistan and India.  It is a true story most Westerns do not know anything about.  Awesome and brilliantly written !!
We are going to India in 2 weeks, and the book was an history lesson of India. Very well written and very interesting.
Excellent book about the events that led up to India's independence. Terrific and informative read for anyone eager to know about the history of a magnificent nation.
i read this book when i was 18 as part of supplementary reading for my high school special paper on contemporary indian history (i am not indian and studied indian history purely as personal interest).  unlike my indian history text books, Freedom at Midnight was easy to read and so much more interesting.  The writers adopted a story telling style such that readers can appreciate the story without the academic jargon.  even if you have no interest in history, i highly recommend this book as the story is engaging and complex.  on a sidebar.  i found it so sad that, india, pakistan and bangladesh were all one country, all brothers and sisters.  however, as events unfolded, india and pakistan became sworn enemies as if two blood brothers became strangers focused on annihilating the other.  even as a non indian (non pakistan), i feel the sadness.  i hope these two peoples would eventually find the reconciliation to become friends if not brothers/sisters again.....
Reads like a novel, with the detail required to feel the action, but with the sweep of history to put it in perspective for readers.  Collins and Lapierre are a great writing team and this is one of their best works.  Invaluable for those beginning to read about the subcontinent as well as long-time students.  I give it my highest recommendation.
I read this while living in India and found it to be the truest expression and understanding of India's complexities, intricate culture, and history. The book covers India's liberation from British rule from the appointment of Lord Mountbatten as viceroy through to the assassination of Mohandas Gandhi. With India itself as the protagonist, you sympathize with the great mother's birthing pains and cry with her as she loses thousands of her children during the massacres of the partitioning of Pakistan.  All of the important players (Mountbatten, Gandhi, Jinnah, Neru) as well as the ordinary citizens are presented so completely and fully.  Even if you are not an Indian enthusiast, this book is an intriguing read into one of the most dramatic events of the twentieth century.
It's everything an Allende book should be but without the politics!
Clear description of class distinction in Chile's past and the opening of California, USA, during the gold rush made for interesting reading.  The way the author melded the two histories together was very inventive.  It is also a book of characters I'd love to have known.
It takes a while for the story to unwind, but once it does, Isabel Allende weaves a very compelling drama.
I enjoy Alllende's writing style.  I like her characters and feel I am learning about that period in hidtory.
Love her writing and the store is great. Looking forward to reading the follow up book.
This book came up in conversation recently, (yet again, because I brought it up), and I realized I'd never posted a review for it. I read Daughter of Fortune about six years ago while in the hospital and was so engaged throughout, I forgot I had needles sticking out of my arms. Isabel Allende has a way of pulling you into the character's point of view so thoroughly, it's hard to believe she wasn't actually there in that time period. Of course, I love historical fiction sagas about girls/women who must overcome incredible obstacles to survive, but I especially enjoy the way Ms. Allende sets her novels in historical situations I didn't know much about, which is rare. If you enjoy Ms. Allende's work, you might like another novel I came across recently called Confederado do Norte by a new author (I think) Linda Bennett Pennell which has a similar feel and a historical situation previously unknown to me.  I never reread stories, but I think I might go on another Allende spree and read all her books again.
It is a great book.  I have read The Lion, the Witch and Wardrobe before, but this time I read it on my Kindle and it was so much better.
It's great.  It's C S Lewis' best piece of work.
every child should read this
Simple read and a really fun book Recommend for anyone Looking forward to reading cd Lewis' other books in the series
The words paint a picture in your mind better than seeing a movie. Exciting.
My newly turned 7 year old son and I are reading the Narnia series as bedtime stories leading into Easter. He loves it and asks to read some pages so we take turns.  Not many pictures, but I prefer him to use his imagination.  I personally don't care for the pictures in this format since they don't quite meet my own imagination of what is being described. And, having it on Kindle is great because we can make the font bigger making pages seem less intimidating to a young reader.  If he doesn't know a definition we just long-press on it for the definition and discuss it a bit. Great story of morals and ethics, good and evil, forgiveness and hope wrapped in suspenseful action.
Classic. I got this one for my kids and they are loving it even my five year old son.
This small little book had a lot of information inside if it. I had read the reviews, and they were right! It contains alot of pictures and information about setting snares (traps) and also pictures and info of edible plants and non edible. More then plenty of ways to start and built a fire. Cooking techniques and Medical layouts are also very helpful. This is a Must Own for Survival  or Camping in the wilderness! 5+ Stars!!
I have enjoyed skimming through this book. There is a TON of information of this book! Each chapter is broken into chapters that allows me to find what I am interested in with a quick glance. There are some colored pictures in the animal and plant section. There are other black and white illustrations throughout the book. The author is very knowledgeable and it will take me a LONG time to go through it all.  There is first aid, finding food, hunting, survival necessities, how to find, collect and purify water just to name a few. I think this will be very helpful for my family and me as we start planning camping trips. I have heard there is a pocket version and I would like to get one once I can locate one.  I would recommend this to anyone interested in survival, camping, or bugging out.
Page 24: "Don't talk like a Dalek" I already love this book
This book is awesome and exactly what I was looking for. It's definitely not a take along book though it's very thick and heavy but it's great for the house  and I've been reading it front to back like a real book. It's full of useful information for many different scenarios and locations with color pictures and explenations. Haven't gotten to the new urban survival chapter yet but I'm site is great.  Overall great book for any prepper or camper to have and just everyone to educate themselves on what could save their lives when shtf.
Fantastic book packed with all the info you would need to survive doomsday. If all hell breaks loose this is the first thing I'll grab.
I was spellbound by this book and just could not let it go without finishing through. Here is my take:  Pros: This book has an excellent and gripping narrative, is exhaustively researched, gives a vivid account of 1947 in India as if one were living in that time and truly worthy of its best seller status.  Cons: These are very minor points and I do not know whether they are entirely avoidable in a work of this magnitude. There are a small number of inaccuracies such as Indian names of people, organizations and festivals wrongly spelt, some numbers inaccurate etc. Also, sometimes this book dwells too much on the peculiarities of Hinduism - I am not sure whether this was just an integral part of this literary work and if it was really required in this book.  All in all this book is one of the best accounts of the momentous year 1947 in India's history.
This is just an amazing read in the same tradition as O Jerusalem written by these same two authors.  Very engaging and makes you feel like you were right there.  I like the author's attempt at neutrality in telling this amazing story.  If you want to understand the history of this era this is a great way to get it!  It seems researched well and well documented.  barb
This is a great read for those interested in the history of the Third World.  India and Pakistan are countries with huge populations and their independence in 1947 was one of turning points in the decolonization of the Third World.  Collins and Lapierre detail this story in this book.  Also detailed are the four people most important in the independence:  Montbatten, Gandhi, Nehru, and Jinnah.  Millions may have lost their life in the Punjab, but it would have been a far bloodier story if these people were not around.  Focus is given on Gandhi who was a most unselfish person, in recognizing the rights of all faiths.  The book details how Gandhi's struggles lead to the independence of India, and how the leaders of the different faiths broke the country up into Pakistan and India.  The last part of the book is the story of the assassination of Gandhi by Hindu fanatics.  This is a great read.  At a little over 500 pages, this book will take some time to digest, but it is one of the best books about the independence struggle of Pakistan and India.  This book also sheds some light on the current problems with Kashmir.  A great read.
Everything was fine.
I have enjoyed every step into the world of Narnia! The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe filled me with excitement, adventure and hope for a new tomorrow. This story was easy to follow and engaging for all ages. My children (elementary school aged) were just as fascinated by each chapter, as was I. A page turner, for sure!  C.S. Lewis beautifully portrays this story with such sweet words. Although the copyright was back in 1950, trust me when I say that this story is just as relevant today as it was then- a true classic piece of literature!  I would recommend this book to anyone- of any age. A great book for any home, school or personal collection!
All I expected.
This is a beautifully written story that transports you to a different time, difference cultures and was a wonderful read. Treat yourself.
Such a great story...loved the time period and the location of the story, loved the strength of the main character.
The only other Allende book I read before this one was Zorro, which I really enjoyed, this one has the same kind of feel to it. Epic adventures, tons of history, entertaining characters, loved it.
I love historical fiction and this book satisfied my craving.  Having visited Valparaiso, Chile a couple of times and parts of California, my imagination went wild over trying to pictures these places in this time period!
Outstanding!  From chapter to chapter I read with great interest - wanted to find out what choices major characters were to take on their journey.  Learn many historical and cultural facts.  Did not take a sappy romantic turn but outcome made a lot of sense. Highly recommended for reader yearning for good writing, interesting characters, fascinating influences in development of our country.
You really should own this. And read it. You'll probably need it some time in the near future.
Great. Compact.
Great book, great info, packable size.
VERY small print but I like that it is very small overall
I'm building bug-out / emergency bags for my kid's families and wanted something to through in that might help - and this book is GREAT.  It is really small (like pack of cigarettes small) so light and eyesight matter.  This book contains useful information on every topic of importance when scrambling to survive.  What plants to avoid, tying knots, how to build a lean-to, how to build a fire, how to field dress a deer! (that they stunned with the slingshot, I'm supposing...).  It is clearly written and nicely illustrated.  I can only say I like it - it hasn't saved our lives yet - but having seen and looked through it, I put it just below water-filter and far above can-opener in the list of things to have in the bag.  They all laugh at me for my efforts now, but when the asteroid hits the Atlantic and there's a giant tsunami, they will be glad.  Even though we live in Kansas.  Which reminds me - I need to shop for inflatable boats. Later!!
Must have book for any outdoor enthusiasts. Written by an X British military special forces nut. Easy to read and follow, Great pictures. The only way to make this book better would to have printed on water proof pages.
This book has so much more information than I thought. It covers everything, not just survival in an emergency, but how to deal with many, many situations.
A wonderful imaginative story full of deep meaning, morality lessons and lots of love. Overjoyed I finally read this. An A-One book for kids with plenty to interest adults!
Good book
I am older, and the story means more each year. The story of good versus evil, with good winning out, never grows old. Truly for children and adults alike.
THIS BOOK IS SOOOOOOOO GOOD. I LOVED IT. It leaves you on the edge of your seat every time you read it.
My 6 year old daughter and I read this in just a few nights.  The story is exciting and kept her attention even though there are few pictures in the book.  The parallels to what Christ did for us on the cross and His defeat of sin are really amazing.
Loved "getting lost" in Narnia.  Love how Professor relates it to multi-verses !!  &the author's inserted dry humour! The imagery's great; fun adventure for kids (+me).  Complicated enough to make it interesting, whimsical enough for an escape :) A bit violent{for my taste}, but was written back in the day, so different time, etc-- ps:i don't really see the Christian correllations, etc . . . maybe b/c i don't need to  ;)
I first read this book when I was in college and a professor suggested it.  I loved the book and the adventures the 4 characters participate in.  It also teaches about love and forgiveness.
I am not a literary critic, just a mom who wants my young daughter to love reading and develop her imagination in that way. This book is a challenging chapter book which was so captivating that my 8-year-old couldn't put it down. She went on to read the others in the Narnia series in order without waiting on bedtimes with me. That says it all, doesn't it?
It was a awesome book and I am not much of a reader. I was happy I choose to read it
Certainly deserves the classic reputation it enjoys.
This was a great book - one of those that you start recommending to your friends when you're only halfway through. It's quite dense, with meticulous historical detail about a one year period, but as long as you have the patience to stay engaged through the topics you're less interested in, the payoff is worth it. It's a book that makes you feel that you were shamefully uninformed before you read it, and that you need to absorb as much history as possible so you'll never be uninformed about non-American history again. This reads like fiction not only because it's engaging storytelling, but because it seems impossible that the authors know this much detail about everything without having made it up themselves.
This book is correct facutually  and has gone in great depts to do so. Very few people have got access to the number of people the authors have met. Intrestingly, they also met the people who assasinated Mahatma Gandhi.   Thoush about history, it is quite fast apced and eye witnesss recollections have been given at appropriate places. It is also one of the best pieces of English langusge in terms of the vizualization which can be after reading throught the chapters on partition and the period after that. It does not wholly focus on gandhi nor on any one person. Though in my opinion, it has praised Mountbatten a bit too much in this book. I would say that India and Pakistan were divided in haste and the demarcation line drawn pretty randomly.
I found this book captivating. Since I work with more than 20 Indians and one Pakistani, I was able to discuss the events in the book at length with them. One of my friends' father barely escaped death on one of the trains fleeing Pakistan. He and his brother have bullet wounds to show. The Pakistani's father also narrowly escaped death while leaving India for Pakistan. Two of the Indians decided to read the book with me. All agree that the book is accurate. It was very emotional for me to read of the atrocities and understand the personalities involved. My Indian friends experienced even more intense emotion as the read of the experiences of their parents.   One of the other customer reviews stated that the book made Montbatten look too good. My Indian friends disagree. Montbatten was a great man. The book might have underrated him, if anything.   The book also shows several sides of Gandi that most Westerners are not exposed to. He is still a great soul, though.   This book will change you. At least read the first 100 pages before you make a decision -- it'll draw you in.
I am not an expert on the subcontinent, and I found this book to be well written and gripping. It ties together events occurring at nearly the same time, so the reader gets a feeling for the huge tragedy that overtook India. I had read Paul Scott's The Raj Quartet and Staying On, which are fictional accounts of the Partition. This book filled in many of the historical details that serve as backdrop for the Scott novels. I like that this book does not glamourize the English Raj, many of whom were clerks elevated to masters in the British India. It does seem more negative toward Jinnah and the Muslims than the Hindus, but I do not yet know whether this is a fair depiction. The Sikhs come off very badly. It succeeds in inspiring the reader to seek out more facts about India and Pakistan.
I can only say that this book is really splendid. It is like all history books should be: it describes historical events and portrays the personality of the persons that played a role in it, but it also concentrates on the common people that lived in that time, on their dreams, on their beliefs... And this last part is surely what makes of this book a great book: the fascinating diversity of the indian religions, the manifold of colours and scents of India are depicted vividly. And also very vivid are the personalities who appear in this book, the "little" ones as good as the "big" ones. For example the figure of Gandhi is depicted in all his greatness and spiritual authority, but also the strange parts of his character are shown. The same for Nehru or for Mountbatten. And in this way all the meetings of this persons become like the scenes in a thrilling novel. If you read this book you'll learn to love India like I do!
This was a most interesting book and very well written. I would recommend it for a historical fiction great "read"!
I have seen the movie based on her first book, The house Of The Spirits. Not knowing that she had written several books I was happy to build a relationship through he writing. Isabel Allende should be a must read for all.
I loved every page of this book from start to finish.  This is my first Isabel Allende book but it won't be my last.  The characters are so well developed and the story so rich without being sentimental.  The history and cultures of the characters and their various countries come alive.
Isabel Allende is a genius storyteller.  This and Portrait in Sepia contain some of the same family and are both wonderful.
I don't know why it took me so long to discover Isabel Allende's novels, but I enjoyed "Daughter of Fortune" much more than I expected to.  I found it a very interesting read and I did enjoy getting to know Eliza and reading her adventures in her journey through life.  I would rate this book a 4 1/2 - 5 star read and I do plan to read more of her books.  As I am a bookworm, I enjoy adding a new author to my lists.
i picked up this book cuz i was curious about the event of the end of the British Raj.  in countless other books, this subject came up over and over.  now i see why.  it is not only about the breakup of England's control over India, and the formation of Pakistan and India.  the interplay of events, personalities, religion, politics, the intense discrimination between Indians themselves, all had a part to play in the awful way things played out. it is very very easy to say religion caused everything that went wrong, or that England totally screwed up the separation when they knew better, but these authors make sure we see the big picture.  this book does not describe a morality play of conquerors vs. natives, or the good religion vs. the bad ones. the book really describes all too human motives and fallabilities that in this case, caused India's woes, but it could have happened wherever humans live and create societies that rub up against each other.
For me Mahatma was just one of the leaders initially, apart from the fact that he happens to be a famous fellow libran that I could boast off with my friends. His strength was understood when we read page by page his  "exprements with Truth". But when I read this book, I learnt why  he stood tall, called "Mahatma - the Sacred Soul" among humans. It baffles to read that he held sanity, principles, idealogies till the  moment he walked in to his death path when a whole nation gone berseking. Always humanity thrived not on their rights but applying their learnings  from their wrongs. This is possibly the best medicine for the likes of all  countries that are beliving in weapons to rule one country. Our country was  ruled by this fragile man with a walking stick and round glasses. Learn and  apply learning. Krish iyer, India
This is a fabulous, well-researched book which is also easy to read. I could not put it down. I read it before visiting India and it helped me better understand the political and social conditions present. The book  covers India's independence from Britain, the partitioning of India into  India and Pakistan, and the history that influenced these events.
Small size, (pocket sized albeit a bit chunky unless you have cargo pockets) but packed with a lot of good information. Very interesting if noting else.
very handy
Very happy with this order! In my opinion, everyone should own a copy of this book!
Great book! Thank you!
Detailed and straightforward. Very well written.  A little long to take to the field, take some notes for the road.
The book was very handy while it lasted.  If they would only make it dog proof... The material was simple and well organized.  I need to order another copy now.
Great item, price, and seller. Would buy again without hesitation
fascinating plot, very well read, keeps your attention completely riveted to the story, the style reminds you of Gabriel Garcia Marquez
I have read many historical novels on the Holocaust or the pioneers in Americas West, but Allendes teen/adult novel starts in a place and time that is rarely in the limelight. 1840s Valparaiso Chile; Eliza is adopted by brother and sister Rose and Jeremy Sommers and raised to become a lady. At 16, Eliza falls desperately in love with destitute Joaquin Andieta and decides to escape from her sophisticated life and follow him with thousands of other Chileans to California, in the mad rush for gold. Dressed in mens clothes, she begins tracking Andieta through a land of prostitutes, ruffians, and violence, and with it finds independence which might be more precious than Andietas hand. Isabel Allende, herself raised in Chile, is a master of characters and painting a picture of the gold rush which I never knew existed. I loved how unique each character is - and how she provided background on each one. However the end seemed a little unresolved - I dream about all the knots left untied. All the same I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who appreciates developed characters,  has a historical curiosity, and above all a love for old time adventure.
Beautifully written!  Allende is a master story teller!  She weaves a story of love and obsession, while creating fascinating characters!
ove it! Thanks.
Good ,Elle. D. D. D meo,don't uuemmejijem hi my name is sa a a a a a a a a a
My favorite book of all time. I first came across this book when I was about  10 years old and I was hooked for 5 consecutive years. Today 35 years later I came across it again and it still is my absolute favorite of all time. This book holds a very special place in my heart. It is what made me the bookworm that I am today.
It really helps your imagination to think of new worlds and new possibilities that I wouldn't have thought of.  I loved it!
A great read for a family read aloud or even a teenager. I will admit that I never read this series growing up, but loved the movies. I wish I would have been able to read them before I watched the movies, because I find that I do not enjoy the book as much after watching the movie or television show. It was a well written book and I will finish the series, but wish I could go back in time and read these a long time ago!
Hard to go against C.S. Lewis. I read this story with my 4 year old and after some on my feet editing, she enjoyed it. It has a decent amount of battle in it so keep that in mind. We talked about the parallel between Aslan and Jesus. It was very cool to see her making the connection!
Great book, highly recommend
Good book to me i would read it again and again and I thank the author and Amazon for putting it in the public
Everyone should have this book and the rest of the series
Excellent story telling, great narration, a classic for adults and children alike to enjoy! Wanted to read the originals before watching the movie
I recommend it! It's A good read, it kept me coming back for more! Can't wait to see what happens next!
Isabel Allende excellent as always. Used to read her in Spanish. Reading in English now, same emotions. Thank you so much.
This is more of a review of the narration than the actual story, as there are plenty of reviews of the book itself. Suffice it to say, I loved the story. :)  The Narration: I greatly enjoyed the reading of this book. I've just completed my B.A. in English, so I've read quite a few books in the last few years, and, since I also have a toddler at home, I've read many of them on audio CD or Audible recordings. This narration is one of my favorites. The reading is compelling, engaging, and accurate. By accurate, I mean that I had no trouble moving between the audio CDs and the text. Sometimes audio performances can be too slow or too fast, and I usually have to fiddle with the speed of the reading, but this reading was perfectly performed. I really wish this book were also available as an mp3 download, as it's much easier to listen to with the latest technology, but, even as a CD, it's still a worthwhile purchase!  The bottom line: If you're interested in reading this book, definitely buy the audiobook version. It's a great performance.
At first I was very reluctant to read it, not knowing the author and figuring it to be victorian-ish.  however, to my pleasant surprize the more I read the better the story became.  It takes you to some very interesting places around the globe but lands a shining star on San Francisco, CA during the city's  founding Gold Rush days.  What an interesting way to learn about the city's beginning through the travels, perils, and stories of the great characters.
Sort of a South American Annie Oakley, I liked this book a lot.  Many interesting adventures, and time period presented with a sense of authenticity.
Fantastic book with an amazing narrative, extremely well written and a real pleasure to read. The story flows and is one of those books difficult to stop reading.
One of my all-time favorite books, along with its companion/sequel Portrait in Sepia.  I've read them both repeatedly. Wonderful storylines and characters.
Easy transaction and shipping. Book in good condition. Haven't finished reading it yet so I don't have an opinion yet wether it's a good book or not but so far so good. Thank you
I read this book a long time ago and absolutely loved it.  Then I loaned it out and never saw it again.  I haven't read this new copy, but want it on my book shelf.
love the story and the caracter of this novel. It made me have a feel of the times when the US was a young country.
This book is one of my all time favorites!  The writing is beautiful.  The historical settings are wonderful and are brought to life by this talented writer.  If you like historical fiction, cultural diversity, and romance, you will love this book!
I loved Allende's writing in this book, which was for adults, unlike the City of the Beasts series, in which her writing was not as good. I don't know what her writing is like in the original text, but I think the translator did a good job. I should give her credit. She is Margaret Sayers Peden. Anyway, the writing style of this book was smooth and engaging, and the story-line was interesting. It is set in Chile, where Eliza Sommers, a young woman raised by a spinster and her rigid brother, sets off to America to try and find her lover during the gold rush of 1849. By the time she hears news of him, she must decide who her true love really is. This is a great story because it has adventure and a wonderful plot. It also has some humorous parts, and wonderful characters.  There's Eliza herself, Rose, the spinster, Mama Fresia, and the characters that Eliza meets in the US. Another great thing was the wonderful descriptions of the greed that the Gold Rush triggered. So many many men, bachelors and married men alike, went to America to brave dangers in hope off gold. It's a great historic novel, and I would really recommend it to everyone.  *You can read all of my book reviews at my book blog, novareviews.blogspot.com*
I am definitely a fan of Isabel Allende's and could not put this book down. Beautifully written and it had the author's flair for describing everything so perfectly down to the scents in the room.
The information was excellent. Be aware that this is a very small book; I was expecting a full size edition. Works great for carrying in a backpack, but can be difficult for those with vision problems to read.
I own several books on survival and I can honestly say this is by far the best Survival Guide I have ever come acrossed you would be hard pressed to find a situation that this book does not cover I would highly recommend this two any one who has an interest in either prepping or wilderness survival and as far as those who gave low ratings because the book covered areas they thought would be useless I can only say this there is no such thing as to much knowledge and you never know that part of the book may one day save your life... on second thought probably not because you didn't read it so if that situation ever comes up do what everybody else does and pray
Wow...just wow. This book covers EVERYTHING!
great to put in a back pack for a quick reference.
gift
For anyone that is trying to be prepared for when the shtf, this is a must have in your collection of survival books. So many scenarios that could happen are dealt with, giving a person at least some chance for survival in a world turned upside down. I have my own collection and this is a go to one for me. I am taking it out with me on my next camping trip and practicing some of the techniques for building emergency shelters for sure. I realize that without practice all the knowledge in my head will not help me.  There are a lot of survival books out on the market now a days but not all of them give as much information for different situations as Lofty Wiseman does. He is teaching from personal experience and training. You won't regret getting this book
good price, fast delivery, and small so it fits in the bug out bag nicely.
Really good book to have around. For any climate or situation. As a pilot, I feel comfortable having this to rely on. I carry it with me and read it often. Very informative.
Being relatively new to survivalist/prepper world, this is a very handy way to keep good information with you in your BOB as it is very small and lightweight.
AWSOME! This book is a must.
Yes, I want to continue with the other books in this collaboration of tales of Narnia. I'm requesting many other people read this book, it is good reading for any age.
And my four year old, Lucy, is ready for the next one. I still say you should read this one first.
One of the best books ever written!
Great...put your seat belt on and get ready for a great ride in the world of imagination.
I was surprised to find the book so close to the movie. I enjoyed reading this and book #1, and look forward to reading the rest of The Chronicles of Narnia. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes adventure, teenager to adult.
Just great!
Read it with my boys in home school and they loved it! Highly recommended. The Kindle version includes the pictures, which my youngest appreciated.
One of my favorite books.  And by the way, the translation is seamless--you would never suspect the book had not originally been written in English.  The characters are delicious.  Eliza Sommers is the quintessential young woman coming of age, Her mother Rose is one of the most surprising characters in literature.  And who wouldn't fall in love with Tao Chi'en? It explores China, Latin America and California of the early 1800s.  Highly recommend it.
This is an adventure, steeped with the history of gold rush California.  It's about a daring young woman who sets off for that state, when women just did not do those things.  Her traveling is dangerous but she meets the challenges by dressing like a boy.  I hated to see this book end, it was so readable.
Peeling each finger off a novel seems like an impossible task when it comes to any of Isabel Allende's novels. Allende entrances readers with her simple yet mesmerizing writing style allowing her numerous novels to have won prestigious awards as well as become a New York Times Bestseller. Her novel Daughter of Fortune is no exception to her unique literary techniques. Her ability to use the rigid reality of history and blend it with fascinating characters is what makes this book truly spectacle. From a biracial beauty who follows her senses rather than reason to a zhong yi dedicated to making a righteous life for himself in America to a tough yet respected Madame of a brothel,  these personas bring the story alive. Daughter of Fortune is a novel filled with the most strangest yet charismatic characters. Allende incorporates characters from different walks of life into one never-ending story.  With each person's story she shows readers the details of Chilean and American history that once existed. The adventures that Allende presents each character from the unwanted pregnancy of Eliza, to Tao Chi'en's  fight against the presence of sex slavery lead readers to want to glue their hands to the novel. I truly loved this book. There are no words to explain the amount of admiration I have for Allende. Being able to make a book so enticing and so respectable is the reason why I recommend this novel. Whether her style of writing may not please everyone, it is one rarely encountered in other books.
There's a reason it's considered a classic.  The entire series is wonderful.
This was my FAVORITE book when I was little. I didn't even know about the christian analogy, and I actually prefer it without that context. I am convinced this book is good for any child, of any age, including children at heart.
I really enjoyed reading this book. I have always wanted to read it but never had time. I was not disappointed.
This story is like a dream. Basically like a movie for people who can imagine. I really recommend This book for any one
Fabulous book
I liked the battles. I also liked the character Peter, known as King Peter the Magnificent. He was a very good warrior and defeated many of the White Witch's army.
Our 8-yr-old son exclaimed, "awesome!" when he saw we were reviewing the book. The story flows beautifully. The language is lovely. And the image of Christ in Aslan couldn't be more plain. We thoroughly enjoyed every read-aloud moment and can hardly wait for our next adventure in Narnia.
Great condition.  Bought as a gift
Love, love, love!  Can't say enough good about the Chronicles of Narnia!
My 12 year old son loved the book. Kept his attention and he couldn't stop talking about it. As a mom, can't ask for more than that.
Awesome Deal,.. Thank You!
This book has everything you could ever possible need for survival. Even long term survival.
Fast shipping! Product as described!
My husband and my son are both scouts and they really like this book
Awesome size...must have!
Full of great information, very thick and inclusive of everything from self-defense tactics to edible plants.
Very good book!
I first read this book when I was fifteen and have reread it countless times. It is a fabulous read and is in no which way "dull" or "one of Allende's worst books." Please read this book along with the stories that follow afterwards!
This is the first book I've read by this author.  My aunt lent it to me and it took me over a year to finally pick it up and read it.  I'm so glad I did and honestly can't imagine why it took me so long!  The novel is so well written.  I enjoyed the author's descriptions of the characters and the storyline was intriguing.  It's one of those books that you're sad to finish because you can only hope the next book will be written half as well as this one.
I have just read Isabel Allende's book for the second time. I adored it all over again.  You feel so safe with it: it never fails you. The characters are strong and unforgettable, the pace of the story telling is fast, the detail is gripping and, above all, the zest for life that flows through the whole book is unstoppable.  Apart from Eliza, the heroine-hero, whose picaresque life brings her full circle back to fulfillment, my favourite characters were Tao Chi'en, Babalu the Bad and Miss Rose. But there's something for everyone and who cares, ultimately, if the characters are perhaps a touch unrealistic? The magic of the Fairy Tale works with Daughter of Fortune too.  Very highly recommended : WARNING : I found it hard to put this book down so don't start it late one night!
The heroine of this book, Eliza Sommers, is orphaned at birth and raised by Victorian spinster and her brother, Rose and Jeremy Sommers in the English section of Valparaso, Chile.  She is helped raised by the Sommers's housekeeper, Mama Fresia, who teaches her to cook and dabble in some superstition and magic.  When Eliza is a teenager she falls in love a clerk who works at her uncle's company, Joaqun Andieta.  About this time the gold craze is going on in California and Joaquin takes off to make his fortune and Eliza finds out she is pregnant.  Eliza manages to convince a Chinese cook on one of the sailing ships to help her stow-away and help her get to California to find Joaquin.  Eliza nearly dies on the voyage from Chile to California but with the help of the Chinese cook Tao Chi'en who happened to be a physician in China she is saved.  Once they reach California Tao intends to split ways with Eliza but she begs him for his help and he relinquishes.  He dresses her as a young Chinese male and passes her off as his deaf-mute brother.  They have many adventures along the way until she finally leaves Tao to go on her search for Joaquin.  However, they keep in touch via the mail and remain close.  Even though Eliza is on a physical journey to find Joaquin she finds herself on a spiritual journey as well.  This is a great adventure book with never a dull moment.  I couldn't wait to get back to the novel and find out what was going to happen next.  This is a story full of history, longing, and redemption.  I promise you will love it.
Daughter of Fortune is my favorite among Isabel Allende's books. Like many of the others she has written, I find it outstanding in its portrayal of its unconventional characters, and full of a subtle humour that is uniquely her own.  It provides a vivid portrayal of life on the western coast of North and South America at the time of the gold rush in California in meticulous detail--you feel that you are there, and part of it, as the heroine lives a series of unlikely events and goes to the gold fields in search of her lover.  This author's imaginative detailing and descriptive talents bring colourful settings from Chile to California to life, and the entire story is a delightful read.  While other reviewers found that there was a problem with the ending, I did not notice that, and have reread it for sheer pleasure more than once.
Not religious Dont let fanatics fool you
We read this as a family book.  What a wonderful fantastic adventure.  I wish I had a wardrobe like that!
Love this book.
My father read this story to me and my two sisters years ago. At the time of the reading, we were of the same age as Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy. After the story was complete and I found myself alone, I snuck into all the closets in our apartment, pushing myself to the back of each in search of a snowy wood with a street lamp. I will try reading this story to my two grandsons when they are a bit older and I hope the story's magic touches them as it did their old grandpa.
Great children's book
This is a book I enjoyed numerous times in print on paper and this copy on Kindle was just as good.  The illustrations were great - just like in the paper book.  It's excellent in paper or Kindle.
We have enjoyed this book. Bought it for home-school LA lessons. My kiddos learned that reading the book is better than the movie sometimes
fantastic story for children
My granddaughter likes the book. I got it for her to read for school.
C.S. lewis writes an alegory of the struggle between good and evil, repesented by Aslan (the Lion) who is actually Jesus, and the Witch being Satan. Follow the struggle against the witch of the "four sons and daughters of Adam" to a dramatic showdown and conclusion with the final battle as Aslan returns to Narnia. The book plainly shows "That there is no greater love than a man lays down his life for his friend."
Very simpel explained en easy to read.
Very informative. A must have for everyone who enjoys the out doors.
This really small book is a really cool survival guide. Well written and thorough. It has a permanent place in my backpack.
Great book, I put it in my Emergency Kit.
If you are like me you want to have solid survival and bushcraft knowledge on you when you go hiking. I know some basics but if a real situation happened there is no way I would what to do beyond try to build a fire. The full-size SA Survival Handbook is incredible, but it is a large book and pretty heavy for a day hike pack. To my delight, there is a "pocket guide", or a small guide that will fit nicely into your pack. Sure you can get information on your phone, but phones die, service can be spotty or gone. This is a nice piece of confidence to carry with you!  I would certainly recommend this book as a daily hiking carry!
Good read and very educational.
As advertised....excellent book.  It is small and packs light.  I got one for each of my backpacks..
Very thorough.
I have read this book twice, and recommend it to any fan of literature.  When I read any work of Isabel Allende, her writing style and the way she is able to get into the mind of her characters sucks me in from start to finish.  Daughter of Fortune is Allende at her best.  This story takes us back to the mid-19th century, from Chile to the gold rush town of San Francisco.  I felt as if I were visiting these places while reading and as a teacher of history and a fan of a great story, I could not put the book down.  She dives into the cultures of Chile, China, and America through her cast of characters, and I found myself wanting to know more about each.  My only regret was that the book was not longer.
This is one of the very best books I've ever read....A GREAT story that kept you interested at all times and with twists and turns that you never expected...this story was amazing, I'll read it again and again......and the ending had sequel written all over it......Thank You for writing it, now about that sequel...???
Amazing work. One of those books I know I will read several times.  Have already recommended to family and friends.
the way this woman writes--her style, humor, and pace--she could be writing the daily stock market report, and it would be a thoroughly entertaining page-turner. I'm reading the English translation, and if it's this good, one can only imagine how it is in Spanish! I read Daughter of Fortune last month, and this month I'm reading Zorro. They are both enthralling stories told by a weaver of magic.  I read House of Spirits and Eva Luna a couple of years ago. I loved them, but I don't remember those being as playful as parts of these two more recent books are. Sometimes the tale is magical and compelling, and sometimes it's just a good old-fashioned whopper.
What a great read, Isabel, absolutely captures the imagination of the reader. I have read every one of her books over the past 10 years, I have purchased them in printed format and also in audio format. I travel with my work and I listen to the books when on the plane or in the car. The "Daughter of Fortune" book has inspired me to travel to Chile and regions to explore the regions she speaks about! The audio which is read by Blair Brown is superb, with an accent that enhances the story. Each time I read the book or listen to the tapes, I am transported to another world and time!  I would reccommend this book and author to anyone who enjoys a good read!
Great classic kids book. A must read!
I have a lot of information/books, etc. on my phone/tablet/laptop but wanted a pretty comprehensive resources in print.  This book is quite comprehensive and I love the physical size of it.  It is just a little bigger than a pack of cigarettes and fits anywhere.  Even though I already knew a good amount of the info it contains, I still learn something new everytime I open it.
great service. just what I needed. good product.
Thanks!
Great info. Very thorough!
Great purchase and the delivery was smooth! There was nothing wrong with the book! Great content and I can't wait to read it more!
For all circumstances, excelent product.- very complete.-
Great book. Lots of info here.
I loved this book!!!  Wonderfully written.  I wish book worm would have rated the actual book instead of the sender.  That's what the sender ratings are for.
This is the story of Eliza Sommers , an orphan raised by English merchants in  Chile who searches for her lover that left for California during the Gold Rush of 1849. Masquerading as a boy, she travels in California with the help of her friend, a chinese doctor. Reading this book, you can easily imagine yourself in early San Fransisco, and hear the smells and sounds of that times. The characters are full and interesting and you keep reading this compelling book to want to know what happens to them. I like Allende's writing and this is her best book, I just coudn't put it down!
Great book that you just do not want to stop reading.  Isabel Allende really can trasport you to another era.
Daughter of Fortune was a wonderful book.  If you love to read story's set in this time period this book will not disappoint you.  It's full of colorful characters you get to know and care about.  I had never heard of this book prior to picking it up by chance at Costco.  It sounded interesting but I wasn't sure if I'd like it or not, after a few minutes of looking at other titles I kept coming back to this book so I bought it.  Daughter of Fortune ended up being a pleasant surprise, I found myself not being able to put it down!  The only down side to the entire book for me was the ending.  I felt a bit cheated until I found out the story continues generations later in "Portrait in Sepia" (which I have on order from Amazon and can not wait for it's arrival). I have recommended this book to my sister and a some friends and each one of them has enjoyed it as much as I did.
I am ashamed to say that I did not know this author, Isabel Allende, before I purchased this audio book.  Well, now I do know her, and I intend to read or listen to all of her literary contributions.  Isabel Allende is easily one of our greatest living authors.  If you like books that are epics, you will love this book.  You'll be taken to England, Chile, China, and California.  You will find your heart rejoicing at times and broken at other times. The author has written a novel with historical information.  I should add that she has written some very wise words to help guide ones life.  The reader, Blair Brown, for this audio book is exceptional.  I have listened to hundreds of audio books, and I consider Blair Brown to be one of the best.  I should point out that this is NOT an abrided audio. I stopped listening to abridged audios long ago.
My book club just finished this book (women from ages 30-85),  we all loved it.  I love historical fiction.  I'd never given much thought to the various groups that participated in the Gold Rush, as well as the accounting of Chile in the late 1800's and Tao's story from China.  I will never forget the term Golden Lilies.  The story was very vivid and covered a multitude of circumstances, much of it centered on women.  Eliza is an orphan who overcomes her upbringing to pursue her love.  Her journey to find him reveals much about herself, her strength and what she can accomplish.  Along her path, she meets many other colorful, vibrant, strong women.  Her spinster Aunt who has her own story which was completely unexpected.  How the Aunt disdains society while appearing so proper and makes money was a surprise.  The prostitutes who travel to the Gold Rush to make money and what happens to them; including, a rough/tough Madam and a reformed prostitute.  Eliza's friend,  a strong business savvy Chilean woman who defies her family and marries the man she loves, a man not afraid to listen to her advice.  Many atypical characters of the time, but perhaps that is the point.  (Sorry to be vague, but I don't want to spoil these stories.)  There are many comments in other reviews about the loose ends.  I felt the book was complete.  During the course of the story, Eliza reminisces from a future time point.  She makes reference to several things that happen after the end of the book.  I would suggest reading carefully and making note of her observances.  It ties everything together nicely.
I only picked this book off my bookshelf because I did not have time to look closer at that moment.  What a wonderful suprise when I grudingly opened it later and from the first sentence I was pulled into the story.  The best way I can discribe the writing style of this book is warm and fluid, easy and addictive all at the same time.  I would never read a historical novel about this time period, but then again I have never found one with an interesting, spirited female character either. I learned a great deal about this period from this book, the gold rush came alive for me through all the different characters.  This is what learning about history should be like.  I didn't want it to end and honestly I would love to know where the author thinks the characters ended up.  I wish she would write a sequal.  Bravo!
As described.
It is very fun and full of adventures.
Exactly what I was looking for.  There aren't pictures on every page, but just enough to help my 5 year-old visualize what is happening in the story.  I will look for something similar in the next book of the series.
It seems kinda of silly to assign stars to a masterwork.  I once owned a college bookstore and I would sometimes ask my customers if a book had ever change their lives.  For me, it was "Structures of Scientific Revolutions" by Thomas Kuhn.  But for my customers, the author most often mentioned was C.S. Lewis.  I'm not religious at all, but I truly admirer Lewis as an author.  It's Christmas time and I just treated myself to "The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe".  It doesn't matter if you are five or eighty-five, this is a great book for you.
You can find in this story all the magic you wish an artist has to share.
Very good book. Magical experience to read. Awesome characters and story. Unique style of writing. Brought the book to life.
As a theologian (Ph. D. in Biblical Studies), I'm continually impressed at just how subtle Lewis's theology is in the Chronicles series. I love what Aslan as a Lion reflects to us about the nature of God. The whole Edmund temptation, fall and redemption cycle is wonderful, as is the idea of a "Deep" and "Deeper" magic that governs life. Lewis gives hints of being a post-modern three generations before there was such a thing. The theology Lewis crams into the sacrifice of Aslan is impressive indeed. We can learn a lot from the places Lewis wrote with specificity and the things he intentionally blurred. There are things we can grasp, and things that lay beyond our ability to fully perceive.
Such a great story! This is required reading for kids the world over and I can see why. The story is thoroughly enjoyable on so many levels. I read it as a child and over and over as an adult and I get something new from it each time. A great read and a great author!
perfect addition to my survival back pack
Started reading looks of good information.
Great read, very informative on several different aspects of survival.
good read
LOTS OF INFO IN A SMALL LIGHTWEIGHT EDITION
Exactly what I was expecting.
Great book, slammed with a ton of information. This book is perfect for your Bug Out Bag...has pretty much all the info you need, at a fraction of the size.  I've added pictures comparing it to the handbook so that you can see the size difference. I have no clue what the content difference is between the 2.
Great, small enough in easily fit in any pack
Pack with info
This book is hard to put down! It is such a wonderful tale for adults and children alike. Truths and values are the undertones of this adventure.
Exceptional!  Adults and children will enjoy.
I read this aloud to my two boys (ages nine and six), and we all loved it. I would recommend this to anyone.
Excellent book.
A classic story!
Excellent! I loved these books when I was a kid and my daughter loved it!
I am reading the Chronicles of Narnia to my daughter at bedtime. She's been enjoying them, we usually read 1 or 2 chapters in an evening most evenings. Regarding the order of the books listed, we are reading them in the order of publication, not chronological order.
Wonderful gift for a young foreign exchange student.  She loved it, and I enjoyed re-reading it.
excellent arrived in short order exactly as described
Start with this book and read the whole series, no matter what your age. Read it to your children or grandchildren and create memories they will treasure. As Lewis said himself: "A children's story that can be enjoyed only by children is not a good children's story in the slightest." This is children's literature at its finest.
I read one of Isabel Allende's novels for a high school English class, and I never imagined that she would become one of my favorite authors. Her writing style is so detailed and engrossing that you cannot help but feel completely immersed in the world she has created. The characters are so dynamic and easy to relate to as Allende details their struggles and emotions with expertly chosen words and phrases.  This book captivated me because the storyline is fiction without the cheese factor and history without the bore factor. I loved watching Eliza Sommers develop from an innocent yet immature child to an experienced adult. This theme is fairly typical of novels, but the way Allende does it is completely atypical. Tao Ch'ien is difficult not to fall completely in love with, and you can't help but pity Joaquin Andieta and his foolish ideals. Even the minor characters are given their backgrounds and their own limelight.  If you like any of Allende's other novels, this is highly recommended.
I LOOOOOOVED THIS BOOK! I was sad when I finished it because I wanted to keep reading more. I was hooked!
I believe that Isabel Allende reunites all generations and their traditions in her novels. It is a wonderful experience to read her work and one is never dissapointed. She reaches out to every age group. This is a writer that should be explored.
_Daughter of Fortune_ is the story of young Eliza Sommers, an "orphan" raised by English merchants in Valpariso, Chile and the quest for her lover who left for the gold fields in California in 1849.  As the story unfolds, we learn a great deal about Eliza's past, the secrets of her family, and the great lengths to which our young protagonist will go to be reunited with her love.  I was utterly engrossed in the story.  I was first captured by the vivid descriptions of 19th century Chile - the smells and sounds particularly, but soon the lives and challenges the characters faced kept me wanting to read more.  Allende encouraged this by mysteriously providing glimpses and clues to the fortunes of her characters ("they would meet again in San Francisco, he still asking her to marry, she still refusing") while carefully weaving the stories of other characters into the broader story line.  Masterfully written, I devoured this book.  I recommend it- the chacters are real and believable, the story is magnificient (who wouldn't serach for true love?) and the ending ... well, I won't spoil it for you, but the ending is a rich reward that will surprise those who do not read the story closely.  Enjoy.
Isabel Allende's A Daughter of Fortune begins slowly but gradually pulls the reader in.  Eliza Sommers is given a life of opportunities when she is taken in by a Victorian spinster.  She is given a better life, but leaves all of that when she falls in love.  When her lover goes to California during the Gold Rush and Eliza discovers she is pregnant, she leaves Chile in search of her lover.  The voyage and transformation that ensues is captivating and will bring tears to your eyes.
A great plot with well-developed characters,educational and rich in historical and social detail. After reading of the wars between the US and Mexico with the acquisition of California in 1850, the opium wars between China and Great Britain around 1839, and the French revolution with the terror of the Napoleonic wars which is mentioned in flashback and considering the present situation of the world the reader discovers why we all can't just get along!!!  Also remarkable is the place of women back then, the plight of newborn baby girls in China and the frequency of natural disasters. Life was surely nasty, brutish and short. The plot which deals with the foundling child Eliza Sommers taken in by the erratic English woman Rose Sommers is interesting. Eliza's journey to California in search of her lover who had preceded her in search of gold, leads her not only to discover freedom but to find love in an unlikely source. Very well done!
Awesome guide! Must have for anyone!
Full of need to know info.
Amazing read. I bought it for research, but now I carry it with me whenever I travel. It's a thick book and you might not be able to memorize all of it without actually putting it in practice, that's why is a handbook. It's the best survival tool out there. Safe travels and adventures!
This is a must have for any adventurers pack.
must have into.
Great purchase. Would buy again.
Good book lots cool stuff to learn
What can can you argue about the british having a history of interacting with cultures around the world and bringing accumulated knowledge of survival toward a science. Great manual!!!
This is an axing book I read it allowed to my 5 year old and he enjoyed it. Chapters just describing their journey made a beautiful gateway to a colorful imagination.
This was a wonderful book it's like twenty chapters long and I read it in one week I love it so much!!!!
I love this book and the entire series. I am so glad I read it again. That's right, I read it twice it was so good! I highly suggest it!
Excellent family read aloud. My 7 year old girl and 10 year old boy both were into it and enjoyed it. My son is now started on the rest of the series on his own.
Thank you.
cs lewis is a wonderful story teller.
A fabulous classic, my daughter and I both loved this book.
I Always love reading "The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe", especially when reading it allowed to my daughter! Well worth the re-read!
This book will make you want to read more and more of Lewis's books. C.S. Lewis has created an Amazing tale
My book group of course loved this book.  Allende takes her time to build the characters and the story (about the first 80 pages) and then you are hooked. Good story, strong characters, very sexual, really tender. We'd recommend it for any book group not hung up on sexual content, language and sometimes brutual scenes.
One of the best novels I've ever read...  Allende's writing was so visual I could pictue every part of the journey.  Some have written they didn't like the ending... I thought it was perfect and simple.  I would love to see a movie made of this book...
Take a trip back in time with this historical fiction novel set in Chile.  You'll be so engrossed you won't want it to end!
I truly enjoyed this novel because of it's rcih descritipion of the era and location.  I felt I was in the late 1800s in Valparaiso, Chile. Since Ms Allende created such a vivd portrait of the time and place I could not help but feel every moment of societal cofinement for the heroine.  I felt like I was part of her mission to leave the past behind and to search for her lover and her new future.  I especially enjoyed the fact that the heroine was a women who was determined to get what she wanted and that she crossed barriers that were posed by society and family.
Classic. Never gets old. The first of a series of 7 books. C.S. Lewis is brilliant
Classic story just read it for the umteenth time but this time aloud with my kids (5 and 7)  They loved it and now we are going to watch the movie together.
I read this book as a child many times over.  It is truly an enjoyable book. My daughter recently read it in book club at her school. She thoroughly enjoyed it too!  I would definitely recommend downloading this book!
Great chapter book for me and my 4yo to read together.
My son enjoyed reading this book
Amazing book!  Worth more than one read.
Brand new. Fast delivery
This was my first Isabel Allende book and I just finished reading Zorro by her too.  Both were great books giving a broad exposure to early California, Chile and Spain.  I would highly recommend them.
This was my first book by Isabel Allende and I am now hooked.  She is a great story teller, seemlessly weaving all the characters together, while transporting the reader to all the locales in the story.  I have recommended this book to my friends and family.  I also recommend Potrait in Sepia which is a continuation of this great story.  Looking forward to reading more of her books!
I have read books that I can appreciate, but just not get into.  This is not one of those books.  I was gripped from Page 1.  Allende truly draws us into the world of Eliza, a teenage girl growing up in Chile, adopted by English siblings.  Eliza's restlessness over wanting love, thinking she's found it, losing it, wanting to find it, and yet longing for something other than love, maybe an escape from the rigid way of life of late 19th Century Chile, takes her -- and us -- on a wild adventure where she -- and we -- meet all sorts of people from all over the world.  I liked that while it was a gorgeously told coming-of-age story, Daughter of Fortune was also something of a historical novel, and a very good one at that.  As an American kid, I learned the watered-down Americentric version of the Gold Rush in California, and certainly didn't learn much of Chilean history.  But in this book, Allende seems to get inside the head of not only her Chilean characters, but characters from all over the world, showing us their ways and teaching us their beliefs.  A ripping great yarn, beautifully told, with some history thrown in (but not so much as to seem like a fancy textbook) -- what more could you want?  I highly recommend this book, and am eager to read more by Allende.
I loved this book, "Isabel Allende Daughter of Fortune!"  It is a clearly written, well developed story about an orphaned Chilean woman who follows her lover to California during the Gold Rush of 1849.  It becomes apparent that the search for her lover becomes an impossible mission, but instead she finds the fabric of which she's made and discovers a new life of promise.  I found myself living "the adventure" in Eliza's shoes, smelling the musty stench of fish nets on the cargo boat and visualize the wrinkley face lines of Dr. Tao Chi'en who becomes an unlikely friend and confidant to Eliza.  I loved this book!  I plan to re-read this book once I finish my new series, Amy Tan.
My dad was VERY happy and said it was the book he had been eyeing!
exactly what I wanted.  Thankyou
Lots of great information.
This is a super read for my reluctant readers! The selections are brief, and they provide information that my students are interested in. Their reports have also produced some very interesting discussion among my students.
I'm very pleased with this book it is full, I mean jam pack with very useful info , I am very happy with it, and plan on using it this spring and summer on my hiking outings.
This is a great book, full of excellent tips.
As described. This book is a must for surviving and has many important tips an tricks and if you know this stuff you are definitely better prepared. Makes for a good read too.
Excellent!
lots of good stuff in this
Excellent ! Love the drawings and the way it is presented. I lost one and bought the same again, would not try something else.
Great for many ages!!
My 8 year old daughter is devouring this classic would definitely recommend this for young readers.
Liked it better than the movie which I did see first LOL
Awesome book. And very practical to have it on the go. I strongly recommend it for young and adults.
Great book highly recommended for everyone.
This was a great book and I believe that you should read it for sure ( if your still into fairy tales )
My two kids loved this book! They are 8 and 6 years old. They were very excited to see how the differences between the book and movie.
What is it: A book about four children who are to travel to a world called Narnia through a magical wardrobe.  What I thought: This is the most well known book of The Chronicle of Narnia series. I loved this book as a little girl, and I bought it for my children who also love it. Interesting, well-written and witty.  What you might want to know: The author is a well known Christian writer and the story has many similarities to the story of Jesus. There are talking animals, magic and some scary/sad scenes. This is actually the second book in the series, though it is a stand alone story--you don't need to have read the previous book to understand this one.
It's a great story big nice ending good show good show wisling from the crowd:)
Nice guide to have.
good book, arrived on time
I didn't mean to get the ultra-small version.  but then  i thought about it..  if i actually want to have this in a pack/car/pocket etc.. the small is the only one that will realistically be portable enough to have for reference in the field.
Very good book for both the beginner and the seasoned. Does a brief of just about anything you'll come across.
Outstanding book. Covers everything and more that I was interested in. I learned SO much and enjoyed it very much.
LOTS OF INFO A GREAT READ
Incredibly small. I would recommend a tiny magnifying glass to go with it as it will be difficult for anyone without an eagle eye to read. Fits nicely in my backpack.
A lot of information packed into a tiny book.  Seams like a good think to keep on hand.
I read this book for my english class and I'm so glad I did because I would have never read it and known what the story was if it was given as a class requirement. The story actually made it to my favorite book list and its so amusing how Eliza and Tao care for each other. It was pretty weird how Eliza had to dress up as a boy, I would think that it would be pretty insulting if people actually fell for it. so I thought that part was pretty funny. I also got to learn more about the history of San Francisco during the gold fever and learned some legends that I have never heard before like the one of Joaquin Murrieta and the three finger Jack.  It's pretty interesting how the ending turned out to be. I kinda had the feeling that their the same person but i couldn't find the connection so I let go of my assumption.
Daughter of Fortune is one of the best historical fiction novels I have read. The book was relatively easy to understand yet was so well written it really touched me. For example, the scene about what life was like back then for women. I thought it was as if I was there, watching the story unfold, experiencing it. I would recommend this book to everyone because it's a story you can learn from. Allende bases the story on a historical time period that will always be there to remind us what it was like to live as a woman then and how much they had to risk.
This is what you call a real book. Isabel Allende is a great author. This book has great discription that really lets you have a feel for the time period. All the characters intertwine with each other making the story all the more interesting. Daughter of Fortune is a very good book, there is never a dull moment. It really gives a great picture of SanFransico in the 1840's and how it came around to the way it is today. This book does a great job of showing the differences in the way people and their ethnicities were portrayed at in the 1840's. This book is definetly worth reading every page. This book isn't just like a regular historical novel, it has tragedy, love, and fortune. Beilive me you will be very glad that you read this book.
At first, I was skeptical. I was not sure if I really wanted to read this book and if it was really worth reading it at all. When we were first assigned this book, I stared at the size of this book and already came to the conclusion that it was going to be difficult to read it mainly because I have an extremely short attention span and I often find myself re-reading page after page because I always zoned out after a couple sentences. Fortunately, to my surprise I liked the book... alot. I couldn't put the book down and eventually in about four days I finished the entire book and started on the new one, Portrait in Sepia. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to get too far in that book because of work, but when I do have the free time I do plan on finishing that one too, and eventually buying Isebel Allende's work.  The book has some twists and turns and such, but I thought that everything was well planned. It was heart breaking, the harsh experiences that Elisa (the main character) went through when she was onboard leaving to California, but if it was not for kind Tao Chi'en, who knows where the child would have been... Obviously, I loved this book and I have nothing bad to say about. I think that Isabel Allende is a great author and I can not wait to read her other pieces.
I was a little skeptical when I picked up this book. It did not sound very interesting to me, and I thought it would be dull. I usually read all of the Oprah book club selections, so I decided to give it a try. I was not disappointed!  From the very first page this book is a page turner that you will not want to put down. The characters are all so diverse and colorful, and her writing style is very easy to read and enjoy. There are so many interwoven tales in this one book, and you will laugh and cry as the heroine makes her trip to California. There are only a few books that will stay with you the rest of your life as the best, and this is one of them.
Just read this to our 6 year old and 4 year old and they loved it! They were the ones who chose the five star rating. I would agree as well, it was a great story.
Bought this for my daughter who is taking a creative writing class.  She is really enjoying it.
I really enjoyed this and will be reading it with my Grandson .. based on his reactions to other books we've read I bet he will agree with Grampa.
I never read this book as a child. I was not much of a reader. As an adult and one who both knows and believes in the Gospel reading this book was an absolute joy. CS Lewis was definitely gifted by God with an imagination greater than most.
I grew up a fan of fantasy and science fiction. I loved book series like Susan Cooper's "The Dark is Rising" series. And still somehow I managed to not read The Chronicles of Narnia until just this year, my 47th! The good news is that you can be a tired, sore, cynical 47 year old atheist an still love and even find inspiration in this book that is, indeed, a Christian allegory, but by no means a preachy or ham-fisted one. Lewis in fact not only constructs a fun and adventure filled moral fable that can stand on its own, but he makes a strong and sophisticated case for the sacrifice of Aslan (Jesus) to redeem human (Edmund's) sin. In other hands this could have been anything from trite to tedious to blasphemous. Instead, Lewis manages to remind even this no longer believing person raised Christian that the story has beauty and power and moral force. And it is also good that none of that is necessary to the story. It is allegory without polemics. And it is a crackerjack children's adventure story that can thrill even a 47 year old child. Don't wait 47 years to read it yourself.
very good condition; cue book; good story.
Sells itself oldy but goody
Good book
Aside from running into the occasional British word or phrase that Americans who speak ACTUAL English don't recognize (lol), this is the best survival book out there. It's the only one I have seen that is consistently mentioned on almost every top 10 list for survival books I have seen. If you are only going to buy one survival book, buy this one.
This book has everything in it one would need for survival. In all honesty, I thought I was getting the tiny 4" x 5" version like the one I already have (this one is a normal book size), but I like the content so much, I am keeping it. Why not have a large version, after all? As for the content, think of any survival situation and it's in there, from the author's extensive survival experience. I hope I never have to use any of this education, but if I do, it's there! And like it says, I will most likely practice some of these (fire-making, getting water from the ground, etc.) so that I know how to do it before it becomes necessary!
Great book. I carry this in my backpack.
best survival book I have read
Excellent book.....Bought it for my BOB. If you don't have this book, you should get it......
very good read.  Lots of good info
Small, Simple, and dummy proof.
Excellent Product.
Compact for EDC
This is recommend all over the internet. When I got it I can see why. Very informative with clear detailed directions for a vast number of things
It was our Book Club selection.  Once I started reading it, I couldn't put it down and plan now to read the rest of her novels.  Living in the "gold rush" area as I do brought the book even more to life for me.
I read this book in one go while travelling in Venezuela and thoroughly enjoyed it. The intriguing family history told by Allende is absolutely brilliant. I've also learned a few interesting things about Chinese culture, even though I've been living with an ethnic Chinese for 20+ years! All in all, this is a master piece, in my view even surpassing The House of Spirits.
I've read a lot of books in my time, and while browsing through my local B.Dalton bookstore, I came upon this masterpiece.  This was, by far, one of the most unforgettable books I've ever read.  It is told so masterfully, and painstakingly detailed that I couldn't stop reading it!  While many say that its too soap-operish for them, I can understand how it may seem that way, but Isabel Allende does not leave any of her characters (major or minor) half-finished.  All of her characters are profoundly described and has extraordinary depth.  The tale of Eliza Sommers was touching and perhaps one of the best coming of age stories I have ever had the privilege of reading.  Also, not only does the book have rich culture and historical significance, it also has touches of deep humor that will make the reader laugh.  If you ever buy another book in your life, let it be this one!!!
enjoyed CS Lewis again!  Love to read his children's books written for adults, too.
My daughter loved this book. She is 4 years old. This is her review: "Susan and Lucy they found a scary lion. 12345678901)(?(_&_(_!$@123456789001"
My 8 year old grandson and I love this book.  We read it every night while he visited me this summer.
great way to get my grandson interested in reading
Still enjoyed the story at age 31. Saw the movie and now just reading the book. Loved it a must read
Always the best read! I love C.S.Lewis!  My daughter has read these to her kids over and over.
Wonderfully entertaining adventure with a great underlying theme of man's evilness and need for redemption.
Magical and thought provoking
Lots of good information here.
I purchased this and two other books for my sons Christmas Stocking and he was thrilled and all of the men in the family wanted one for themselves.
Great guide! Love it and it lives inside my B.O.B =)
I have not finished looking through this completely but so far I am enjoying it very much. It has everything I imagined a survival book would so I am content. I decided I wanted a survival handbook after I started watching Arrow on CW. He was stranded on an island... it could happen to anyone. I'm SO happy this book shows you how to build a bow! It also talks about plants, food, shelter.. it covers all the bases.  If you're looking for a great survival book, this is a great one, with pictures and diagrams.
The best all in one survival book I have ever owned. The book is very small but easy to read.
Husband had seen a friend's book and wanted to read it. I was able to order from Amazon on my smart phone and it arrived in time from Christmas. Easy ordering and arrived quickly. He's enjoying reading the book and it's compact and easy to take along.
This book is packed with a ton of great survival information. It's not something you could read one and retain it all tho. It would take a lot of time and practice to have it all ingrained in your mind. Unfortunately, I don't have that kind of time. So instead I choose to read portions periodically and just keep the book handy in case of emergency. I know that's not the best approach. I know I should really make time to practice because it is important. But as they say... people do what they want to do.
Amazing and filled with great material
Good book.  Love the ease of reading.
sooo interesting
This was one of those, "Oh my God...what's going to happen next!?" books that I could not put down.  Eliza is a beautiful character in this book and you feel as if you are the stowaway, identityless explorer, or hopeless romantic. What I thouroughly enjoyed though, is how that Ms. Allende gave us such a history of all the main characters, so that we could understand their current state of mind.  Rose and her fear of love, Tao Chien and his undying loyalty to Eliza, and lastly Jacob Todd, who you can't help but feel sorry for throughout the book. If you like a book filled with adventure, interesting characters, tangled plot and a little romance on the side, then you will like this book.  If you like history and interesting facts about different areas of the world you will also like this book. It's a must read, however, I will agree that the ending was abrupt and left me hungry for more. The somewhat sequel "Portrait in Sepia" helped shed a little light on the life of Eliza and Tao Chien.  It is also a must read! Don't miss it!
This is the first book of Isabel Allende that I read and I am not planning to stop.  In "Daughter of Fortune" coming-of-age story of a girl is explored against the background of california gold rush.  I like the diversity of characters in the book and how Isabel is able to make them as real as they can be by showing their differing passions for life.  One review said that the ending is abrubt...I don't think it is...As noted by one of the main male characters when consoling the main female character "Nothing is in vain. You don't go anywhere in life, Eliza, you just keep walking" Pg. 395 sums up best what the book is about.
I read this book the week the english version was released. This was a fantastic novel that had me rushing home to find out how the plot was unfolding. When I finished, I found myself yearning for more; needless to say I was thrilled when PORTRAIT IN SEPIA was released. Both are A MUST read.
Excellent.
its a great book for the children and adults who read this book it's not a problem for me I love this book it's the best way of life and goodness for me to read it .
Terrific, as usual. I read it to the children years ago and this time read it just for my own pleasure. What more can I say. Lewis is a great story teller.
Our daughter LOVED the this great book.  It fired-up her 6 year old's imagination of wonderful beasts, adventure and companionship.
Great fun and inspirational classic. as always the book is far greater than the movie. read it and you'll be a fan, too.  CS Lewis is a favorite author in our family.  As our kids were growing up, we would sit together after dinner and read a chapter or two a night from the Narnia series.  This is the first book that was written by Lewis for this series, although it is not the first book chronologically.  I can remember reading this when I was in high school and thinking what a great book it is.  And the allegory in the book is fantastic.  Works well for a children's story or the underlying meaning behind it.  Would highly recommend this book for family -- children and adults will both love it.
Enjoyed reading it to my own children as much as I loved reading it when I was a child.
Most readers of Thompson's later works will find a distinct change of  meter and substance when compared with this work. Here we find the stylings  of a foreign correspondant, mixed with the wry wit unique to the doctor.  Over all, this is compelling work. A well-paced, thoroughly documented  existence in a world where very few of its residents are still around to  share their experiences.
Thompson produces classic, madcap romps through the American psyche.  HELL'S ANGELS is a great example... Vibrant and hilarious.
Came BEFORE the approximate arrival date, and in perfect condition. A great book I have read before (but earlier edition). I recommend it for anyone of the outdoors or survivalist type.  Thanks!
Great little book, packed with tons of info. One of my favorite guides.
This book is very small and a good size for packing in your travel bag.
The best!
Our family loves this little but very informational book!  It's a great size to keep on you and has tons of helpful topics to survive in the outdoors!
Much better than the  small version Easier to read Great go to guide..
LOTS OF INFO, GOOD READ
Nobody is better at this kind of thing than the SAS and the author knows his stuff.  The compact version is something everyone should have in their get home bag.
The book is even better than the movie
This book is very exciting because it is all about talking animals, magical creatures, and witches. The author made the story seem so real and pop out. The part that I thought was very exciting was when Lucy went through the wardrobe and discovered Narnia. My favorite character was Lucy because she was the youngest and the one who found Narnia. I would not recommend this book because it has a lot of violence.
I've read this book as a child and as a grown up and it's still a 5 star read anyway. love a good fantasy read, I've read Tolkien as well but anyone who knows the story of C.S. Lewis knows he was trying to show a fantasy story with a biblical perspective as well, and I appreciate that! Long live Narnia!
A classic!
This was for my grandkids and they enjoy it very much.
Read this with my granddaughter. Wasn't sure she was actually paying attention until I souls stop and she would say " go on, we have to find out what's next". Lots of adventure and lessons of trust, courage, kindness, good and evil.
Love the Chronicles of Narnia.
I was immediately swept up in the romance and adventure of this 1999 novel.  And I learned quite a bit about Chile and the California gold rush in the process too. A baby girl is left in a basket at a wealthy English home in Valparaiso.  She grows up privileged but is never sure of her roots.  At the age of 16 she falls in love.  It's 1849, gold has just been discovered in California, and Chileans can get there relatively quickly due to their location in western South America.  Her lover leaves.  And, several months later, with the help of a young Chinese man, she stows away in a ship with the intention of finding him. During most of the book she is disguised as a boy as she searches for her lover over the next few years.  She experiences the horrors as well as the freedoms of a new kind of life.  And, as I followed her story, I felt I was right there with her, living in the rawness of this newfound world.  There's hunger and greed and illness and great natural beauty.  There are the sad sorrowful lives of the Chinese girls brought over as slaves for the brothels.  There's the hatred between the various ethnic groups.  And there's the background story of the Chinese man and his life in China.  I was intrigued by it all and sometimes disgusted but I couldn't stop reading. This is a simple fast-paced story, full of adventure.  I loved it.
If you've read Isabel Allende's other books, this one will provide you with the same satisfaction and joy.  The writing, as always, is intricately woven and on every page a new part of the story is unfolded.  I don't want to spoil the story for you -- I'll just say... You'll enjoy it!
Isabel Allende has written an epic & enthralling adventure, populated with a cast of memorable & amusing characters, reminiscent of R. F. Delderfield's early sagas. Told against the magnificent landscapes of Chile & California, DAUGHTER OF FORTUNE tells the tale of two countries where the old ways & the new collide, mingle & give birth to entirely original citizens & stories, & of a young woman's search for her lost lover during the Gold Rush years. A good introduction to Isabel Allende's writing. Absorbing & informative & a pleasure to meet a resourceful heroine.
Take it along whenever I travel, great reference source.  The app is nice too.  Should never need 90% of what's in the book, but love reading about it anyway... and you never know!
Don't think twice of getting this book you need it, it has everything from edibles to posinus plants and animals, trapping and shelter ect.
Bought to put in my camping bag. Has so much good info but too much to remember so that's why I opted for this very small version takes up very little room and would be invaluable in a emergency. Has all the survival bases covered and then some. I bought a small waterproof zip bag for electronics like around a pool or whatever and it fits the book perfect so now I don't have to worry about it getting wet while hiking and ruining book. If u love the outdoors and hike or anything where u may get into trouble and have to stay overnight this book would def increase your odds of coming home. Thx
I love all the different sections from hunting to fishing to shelter building to fire building to diff types of knots and traps..the list goes on and on..def a must in any survivalist' bag!
This is the perfect book for after any emergency.  The only way it could be better is to be laminated from front to back..
I got this book for its outdoor survival techniques, and ways to conserve things in an emergency. A must have if you're a parent especially. First aid section and plant identification was very well explained, illustrated, and probably the most important thing in that book overall. Very insightful, i would easily recommend this to anyone..
It's a must have book.
Great read. Fast paced like someone is telling you a story!
Always wondered about these guys and their beginnings. Their story is remarkable with regard to ancestors, anti-social behavior and just enjoying being nasty no matter what. A strange brotherhood with no boundaries or filters. And yet, they were another sign of the changes taking place in the 60's. Another pissed off group of angry young men.
Always been one of my favorite books. Excellent.
Such a good book.
Loved this story and the meaning behind it!
wonderful
Magnificent tale chuck full of symbolism and great adventure. Not just for kids.
I liked the interesting word choices and exciting story.  I recommend this book to any imaginative people.  It is one of my favorite books.
Still spectacular after all these years!  My parents read it to me,we read it to our children and now getting the set for the grandchildren.
I am not trying to put down the movie, but the book takes your imagination much deeper into the world of Narnia than the movie does. We see the tenets of the gospel all throughout the story and how it relates to our reality. The story of a Narnia is much closer to our realities than we think, you jus pt have to look deeper.
the gift was a hit
This is the first Allende book I have read. Although I was a little reluctant to pick it up since I have read (or attempted to begin) some Oprah book club books before and lost interest, I was extremely pleased with this one.  The story was engaging from the first page to the last line.  I rarely have enough time to read, but this book kept me up at night and didn't leave much time for anything else. The story didn't drag, and unlike some other Oprah books it didn't have the sappy storylines or gut-wrenching endings.  Eliza was great to relate to and all the characters were so human in their reactions.  Allendes imagery was so real, I could feel the hot Chilean sun warming the back of my neck. I reccomend this book to anyone who feels ready to be swept away on an epic that defys all restrictions and liberates the soul.
I haven't read an Isabel Allende novel since I was a little girl. Upon hearing the release of Daughter of Fortune, I promised myself I'd give it a whirl. Well... I finally did. I can't believe I took so long to read this gem! I ended up savoring each word like a delicate pastry. What a gift Allende has -- she makes it appear easy. I mean, how could she make the supposedly subtle language seem so... effortless? Miss Rose, Eliza, and all the characters sprang to life without pretense. Some people have complained of its so-called slow-paced plot, but this book should not be rushed. Allende has topped House of the Spirits (which happens to be my favorite Allende novel), and that is no easy task. I shall never hesitate to read an Isabel Allende masterpiece again...
This book is a very exciting and intriguing story has a lot of History from the 1850's very well narrated .......I was Impressed , I learned a lot!!
Every child and adult should be privileged to share the adventures of Narnia! It is a roller coaster of emotions - sadness, joy, fright, jubilation, defeat, victory. Good vs. evil in a character building story. Enjoy!
The most popular book in the series - amazing of course.
Delightful, well written work for adult and child. Excellent and classic bed time story.
Outstanding and captivating!
Fantastic. What more is there to say about the CS Lewis' masterpiece? Read this over a couple weeks this past summer with my six year old son. He a LOVED it. Gave us something to read and talk about each night before bed. He is old enough to pick up on the redemption story outlined here. Great discussion points to talk through with your kids. On to the second book this fall.
Just finished reading it to my 6 year old she loved it and I loved Reading it to her but Turkish delight is now off her favorite list
Excellent children's classic.
Awesome story for a 5th or 6th grader.
Becoming accepted into a very exclusive, dangerous tribe.  He did everything but strap on the Colors.
I'm not sure but was this book toned down when he was describing the angel  pulling teeth I remember it differently. My cousin had this book when it was first published and I read it when I was 12 or so. But when detailing the dentist angel if I remember right he had a necklace of human teeth and had a holster for his pliers around his waist. I was young but its what I never forgot can anyone remember anything like that in the first publishing .
Brilliant journalism, Thompson had huge courage to embed with this outlaw gang. Powerful use of language. Don't believe the dotards who gave this book anything less than five stars!
a great read
THANK YOU
Great little tool.
I was very happy with this book! It has a lot more information that I expected and the perfect pocket size to carry with you backpacking, camping, boating, etc. Almost makes me wish that I could be on a deserted island to try it out :) Definitely a reccommend.
Great book with a wealth of useful information.
Even better than the last!
A very in depth handbook, good to have on hand.
Good size. Lots of information.
Perfect. Thanks! Can't wait to expand my survival skills.
Fun and very informative book. Its also small enough to take with you backpacking if you want some nice reading material.
Very  informative.
Allende is an incredible author. She weaves fiction and reality seamlessly, you feel as if you have known the characters for years! Although the plots at first seem completely unlikely, Allende is so convincing that by the end of the book, the story is totally logical!
This is a story to read that will show you that with a little courage & faith, you can make it through anything.  Loved the story, even though you wanted to cry & cringe for Eliza.  She's a tough cookie!
Allende is masterful at creating a colorful image filled with the precise emotion necessary to evoke the atmosphere of this book. This novel is full of interesting characters with even more interesting lives. I did not want the story to end and am glad to see that there is more to the characters in her other book. What a delightful read! Definetly worth the the read.
a great book for children & adults.  I know that it came in 2nd to Charlotte's Webb for Time's children's book of the 20th century, but The Lion.... is so much deeper.  It's a book I never tire of reading & also enjoy hearing it read from cd.
Fantastic!  Such a great story and so well written.  My daughter (9) LOVES this series.
Great book
Very good allegory by Lewis.
It is a classic for good reason.  The perfect book / series to read as a family!
Love it! I'm reading it to my daughter every night and she is always looking forward to it!!! She is 7 years old
this book is  THE  BEST.  four children find a portal in a wardrobe that leads them to narnea. on the way they meet the king Asland (who is a lion) and defeat the evelwitch with his help and save narnea
A classic. Glad to have finally shared this with my son.
outstanding book of information on survival tactics. It arrived a day earlier than promised.
A little small but informative.
If you've ever had a drill instructor pushing you and teaching you about survival, read this book. If you've never had a drill instructor in your face and you're a bit of a softy, you too need to read this book. I'm not kidding. If you grew up in my generation and can remember the phrase "According to the Junior Woodchucks' Guide Book" this is that, but for adults. Don't be caught with your pants down when you need to count on yourself the most, this book can help prepare you for whatever you need to face. Read it, store the knowledge, prepare for the worst and hope for the best.
This book is tiny so pay attention to the measurements (I didn't). Fortunately, in this case, great things come in small packages. This book is full of a lot of great information. Due to the size, I think we may keep this in the bathroom for reading. Kill two birds with one stone, or one sitting.
My husband absolutely loved this book!
Big book
Pretty cool. Kinda small book
Reading this book made me want to put myself in danger for some ripe nasty story of humanity. Enjoyed every second inside this work.
This is the first book of Isabel Allende's I've ever read.  For some reason I always thought she would be an intimidating author and a bit too mystical for my taste.  In fact, it's her concrete details that provide the very definite auras of the places and people she describes.  So in addition to a wonderful plot and terrific characterizations, she brings to life the mid-nineteenth century in Chile and California during the Gold Rush.  I will definitely read others' of hers now, and would recommend this to anyone.
This novel draws you into its time and setting and lets you get to know the fascinating characters.  Its no-so-predictable plot peaks your interest.  Other reviews here outline the story well and I agree it left me wanting to read more.  Here's hoping a sequel will someday be out.
While the book was written for children,  like all good children's literature, it has a wonderful appeal to adults. Using creatures from the myths of several cultures, C.S. Lewis invents a whole new world and there tells a new tale with deep roots in history. The book is not an allegory, strictly speaking, but uses story to help us understand the nature of sin, repentance, service as well as Christ's redemptive work and His resurrection. Reading this book will give one a deeper appreciation for Bible teachings. Conversely, an understanding of the Bible makes this story richer and deeper for the reader. This is the finest, in my opinion, of books in this genre.
This is one of my most-loved stories of a lifetime.  I have read it again and again for myself - and often TO others. It is rich and enjoyable, and should be read by every person at some point in his or her life.
I love this book so much that I hardly can put it down .It is now one of my favorite books!
This is one of those precious books that helped shape my childhood. When I saw it available on Kindle I snapped it up since my ancient paper copy was falling apart from so many rereadings (yes, even as an adult). I totally love this whole series, but this first book is my very favorite.
I'm reading this book at least 30 years after I read it before, and  it still holds up beautifully  It is even more powerful from the adult point of view with an awareness  that CS Lewis was writing during World War II. The ugliness and atrocities that occur in the book seen so much more awful within that context. A true  classic.
My Grandchildren were coming to pend a week with me, and I wanted some bed time stories to read. This was perfect, They were enthralled, and want to move on to the next installment. The oldest (13 year old) had read this before, but came and listened anyway. The younger ones were captivated.
Michael York did a great job narrating this! I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Hunter S. Thompson is just fun to read. He has a style that so many people have tried to replicate but no one else can match his rhythm and vivid imagery. It's so amazing that years after the fact, you can dive right in and feel what it is to know the Hell's Angels at their most infamous. If you are easily offended, this may not be the book for you, but if you want a little adventure out of your comfort zone, it really is a good read.
Great book
Excellent read. Balanced reporting on an American phenom with just enough involvement of the writer to feel authentic.
Awesome!
great book ,timely delivery,very happy
One of Hunter S. Thompson's best works.
It seriously has every instruction you need if you were to fall out of a plane and parachute safely to the middle of the woods with nothing but this book. Good luck to you.
Great book. Very small in size but big in skills
Looks great, haven't read it yet though. Very crisp binding.
Awesome information.
Great book! Very informative, colored pics on plants and herbs really helpful. Even if your not into survival, the simple know how the book teaches is awesome!
This is still the go-to book for survival skills, tips and hints for dealing with everything from the simplest first aid issue to more complicated scenario based survival situations. There are loads of pictures and diagrams and the advice is simple, practical and easy to follow.  If you want to build a comprehensive survival and emergency library start with the SAS survival guide and you will find you won't need much more.
I am also guilty of not recognizing how small the book is and when I first received it I laughed. However it is packed with a wide range of solid information and descriptive pictures. Looking forward to trying out many of the techniques the next time camping. More than enough information for our camping / fishing / diving trips. Realizing now the compact size is a good thing when packing it up. Definitely recommend it and seems pretty durable for a paperback.
This book held my interest to the end. I found myself becoming part of the book. I felt I was living the life of Eliza, the main character of the story. This is an older book, therefore,you can read the reviews of many other readers to find out what the story is about. I enjoyed reading the book immensely.
I don't know whether to credit Isabel Allende, Margaret Peden, or both, but this is an immensely enjoyable read.  My wife bought this book because of Oprah's (overrated) book club.  I was bored one evening and picked it up.  I could not put it down.  Wonderful!
Allende, in her usual South American slightly magical Garcia-Marquez-esqe way, has written another classic.  The book combines the poetry of Allende's prose with a bitter-sweet story of an orphan left on the doorstep of a middle class English brother and sister.  The girl, Eliza, raised with the intention of being married off to a good, stable and weathy man, falls in love at 15 with a local nothing.  The story, which follows Eliza's life and love, is interwoven with each of the unique personal histories of each character.  It is pure Allende and, thus, a fantastic book.
This was an incredible book!  It draws you in and you become so close to the characters - you feel like you are living their life.  My only problem with the book was the ending.  It left me longing to know more.  I can only hope that Isabel Allende is planning on writing a sequel!
How can anyone diss C.S. Lewis. Sorry to say it's late in life to read this, but found the story delightful. It's important to remember that this is a classic representing an historic era of children's literature. It's simple and sweet with a great lesson.
I should like to read this to my grandchildren one day. It sparks imagination; a thing children in the 21st century do not seem familiar with.
This was a good book and it was good because it had a good plot and it also was very foreign sounding.
This is a classic. I read it as a child and am now reading it to my son.
Very well written. This is a great book to read to your children! Adventure awaits them and it follows the movie quite well.
Great
Might be my most fav book ever!
As advertised, a good explanation of Trump voters.
Classic.
If you are going to read Dr. Thompson's books, I recommend starting here.
arrived exactly as described will definitely by from this seller again
A humanizing look at an organization grown out of a desire for brotherhood and freedom but, feared by the populous. Hunter S. Thompson jumps in as a participating observer of their wild world and delivers an alternative look at a group demonized by society.
"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" isn't Hunter S. Thompson's best work, this is. With deeper roots in reality, this is the true dawn of Gonzo Journalism. The Fear-and-Loathings take the Gonzo concept off-the-charts and are more an amusing romp or dark commentary. This is journalism rooted in first-hand experience, slightly twisted by a fine mind and writer of the first calibre.
A VERY INTENSE BOOK THAT WILL SHOCK THE READER, PER HOW THESE FEARLESS OUTLAWS LIVE. Very educational, per their history as well.
Exactly as described
Lots of common sense details.
Ordered this book for my son to put in his zombie survival pack.  He is positive that the zombie apocalypse is coming eventually.  He actually read this thing from cover to cover, and that is an unusual thing for him to do.  I think it really kept his attention with all of the qualit pictures and illustrations that are in the book.  I took a look at the book and I was very impressed with all of the information that was in it.
I am thrilled about this book. So much so that I went back and purchased a copy for everyone in my family. It is much smaller than I expected which is great! Yet also easy to read with a lot of color illustrations. This book is easy to navigate and is packed with invaluable knowledge! Buy it, you won't regret it!
Best survival book I have even seen for the size.  This is super small that is a little bigger then a deck of cards. You get some much info in such a small package.  Great for backpack or in a car.
Excellent book. Highly informative. I keep it in my backpack and like to experiment with some of the techniques when Im in the woods
Wonderful reference book to have with you at all times.
This is the book I received when I asked for a survival book for Christmas a few years ago!  Needless to say, I feel more prepared and more relaxed since making Altoids' tins, food bag, and travel bag ready for emergencies (Even the thrift stores have most things needed).  Really liked the section on the Altoids kit and tore it out to copy for a reference.  Have memorized fifty plants that are edible, five that are pharmaceutical, and know what to watch out for.  Like the various ideas for survival shelters, fires, food, and water. Looking forward to seeing the Urban survival guide next.  Will look for the app in Android software.
Very cool! Love it!
My son love this book!
Item received in good condition.
I adore this book. The series is wonderful and I cannot wait to pass them on to read with my kids. I am a firm believer, though it reading them in the order they were written with this as book 1, not chronologically.
A great classic.
I choose this rating because there's so much suspense and action, and I love those kind of books. I didn't like when the witch and her servants were torturing Asian couldn't they have just killed him. my favorite part was in the beginning when Lucy meets the faun Mr. Tummus. I would recommend this book to anyone 10+.
wonderful book, grandchildren love it
One of my favorite childhood books. I downloaded it to read to one of my friend's children, and he was just a little young to follow the older British turn of phrase, so we'll try again in a year. But the first book in one of my favorite series.
I was  pleasantly surprised to find this bo9ok so interesting that I suggested it as the reading material for our latest book  club.  The book waS a definite hit!.  One felt like they were experiencing the excitement along with the children.  It made me want to0 read more of the Chronicles of Narnia.
I have seen the movie of this book and its really great. This would be a good book for a starter reader.
Great Read
Love it.
One of my favorite books. Had to buy it as a gift for someone else!
good reading
a classic
Excellent product and transaction  - thanks.gift..
So this is the Pocket Size of the much lager twin. I bought its larger twin brother. Did not discard this one.
My fianc loves it! Totally happy with the size of the book and it's in perfect condition!
Good book
Good reference book.
A must have for any outdoor adventurer
The pocket size edition is great for a bathroom read or to carry in a backpack. My husband loves it.
I had the large size of this book when I was younger and I loved it. This pocket sized edition is also great and full of interesting information. I like to bring it along while camping.
Though it took me a while to finish this-I was busy for the most-I read Daughter of Fortune with pleasure.  Isabelle's work is nicely done and Margaret Sayers Payden-who should have credit-did a really great job of translating.  A worthy Oprah read.
Isabel Allende proves she is one of the brightest talents of her generation with "Daughter of Fortune."  This is the tale of Eliza Sommers, a Chilean orphan abandoned on the doorstep of the head of the British Import & Export Company in Valparaiso, Chile.  She is raised by the Sommers family, a beautiful sister dedicated to her spinsterhood and her very English, very conservative brother.  There are regular visits from the Sommers' sea captain brother, and Eliza is also partially raised by the Sommers' Chilean servants.  Even though the Sommers have high hopes for her future, Eliza impetuously falls in love with a penniless Chilean clerk who abandons her to join the California gold rush.  Thanks to her unconvential upbringing, Eliza has the courage to strike out on her own after him with the assistance of her Chinese friend Tao Chi'en. Allende's remarkable talent accurately brings to life the English ex-patriot community in Chile, Tao Chi'en's peasant childhood and apprenticeship as a traditional Chinese doctor, the wild, untamed early days of the California gold rush and the rapid civilization of San Francisco.  To portray any one of these settings so realistically would be noteworthy; to combine them all so artfully in one book is truly breathtaking.  The scope of this book is amazing, and some readers may regret that we only get glimpses of some of the pivotal characters and that several plotlines and relationships are never fully resolved.  Personally, I thought this was another example of Allende's realism.  So often in life we only know a fraction of the life and personality of those who indelibly alter our own lives, and we seldom receive neat conclusions where all of life's mysteries are resolved.
This is wonderfully entertaining and atmospheric fiction about Chile at the turn of the century and about Northern California during the goldrush. The characters are well defined in this translation from the spanish and the action is compelling. There are a mixture of cultural environments represented by the characters and they are changed over time by the new society growing in the San Farncisco area. These characters teach us ensightful lessons throughout the story. A great read!
So simple and good.
At my age, I confess this is my first reading of The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe, And I am well aware that it has been explored in schools, church groups, literature classes, friendship groups, and solitary thoughts at bedtime.  Yet I do want to write a review of my reactions. For that reason I have avoided reading other reviews before doing this one. I understood up front that it has been considered a metaphor for Christianity, so that expectation no doubt colored my thinking.  OK. Enough preamble. I noticed that it took an alpha male to make the sacrifice necessary to defeat the manipulative, physically gorgeous, evil female witch. It took another male, Peter, originally a denier (as in biblical Peter denying his knowledge of Jesus three times before the cock crowed) to exercise violence in defense of the cause of belief. I couldn't help noticing the gender stereotypes being conveyed to the young reader. On the other hand, it was a female who first discovered the truth, as in the risen Jesus revealing himself first to Mary who was doubted until Peter could see for himself. Yes, it required the validation of the male to round the story out.  Also impressive was the weapon used by the evil one  to turn to stone those who failed to do her evil. What a great way to prevent the good from happening  to render the potential enemies of evil scared and inept. Its hard not to apply that to present times and the general acceptance of cruelty and violence as acceptable ways of doing lifes business.  As for a read. Yes, I enjoyed it. No surprise. It is a classic. I did find it hard to put down once I began.
After all these years I have finally read The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe and I am glad I did! It is a great story for children of all ages! A must read!!
I love the books of Narnia even though I've only read two! I would definitely recommend this book to anyone whose looking for a good book to read.
I would recommend this book to all.  An easy, very enjoyable read.  A book of the ages - for all ages!
It's great
I first read this book when I was in 5th grade.  I love it now as I loved it then and I recommend that you read it also.  However, if you only read one of the series, by all means, read "The Voyage of the Dawn Treader" which the recent movie seems to have almost nothing to do with....
This is an awesome book for 10 and 11 year old kids. You should read all the books in that series.
Classic. Excellent. Full of wonder, adventure, and magical moments. Highly recommended.
Fascinating story with magic and revenge or a path to self discovery! Much to consider and looking forward to the next installment.
Gave it to my cousin. He seems to like it even though he doesn't read so good.
An interesting perspective on such a notorious group of people. As predicted Hunter s Thompson delivered a captivating first hand account
Good
interesting portrayal of Hell's Angels in this early time of their organization and of the one major run depicted particularly.
It was a gift for a friend who loves the author. He was surprised and loves the book
very interesting look at a social environment not many folks knoe much about
Great book!
Dr. Gonzo is my favorite author!! always yes to Hunter S. Thompson, Ive got a little collection myself :) now just to get the brief case! :)
This is 1 of the only 2 paper books I will actually carry whenever I go hiking, camping, kayaking etc. The other one is my pocket Bible. This book just like it's full sized one is slam full of useful information to help remind you of certain skills & even teach you a few new ones. I enjoy reading even just for casual reading. One thing I would recommend is a couple of the small Fresnel lens' to tape into the book as it can be hard to read some of it. *sigh* I guess I'm getting old.
This book is little. Great to stow in your glovebox or prepper pack. Lots of useful information in a well thought out book. Great buy.
Item arrived on time and without any damage. Product was as stated in ad.
