Resumption of the session.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 December, wish you all the best at the turn of the year and hope that you had a nice holiday.
As you have noticed, the dreaded “millennium bug” has not occurred. But citizens of some of our Member States have been victims of terrible natural disasters.
Parliament wishes to have a debate in the course of this part-session in the next few days.
Today, I would like to ask you - and this is also the wish of some Members - to commemorate in one minute's silence all the victims of the storms, especially in the different countries of the European Union.
I ask you to stand up to a minute's silence.
(Parliament has reached a minute's silence)
Madam President, on a point of order.
As you probably know from the press and television, there have been several bomb explosions in Sri Lanka with numerous deaths.
Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who paid a visit to the European Parliament only a few months ago, was one of the victims of assassination in Sri Lanka.
Would it be appropriate for you, Madam President, to send in a letter to the President of Sri Lanka the regret of Parliament for the violent death of Mr Ponnambalam and other citizens of Sri Lanka and to ask them to do everything they can to find a peaceful solution to this very difficult situation. search?
Yes, Mr Evans, I think that such an initiative is quite appropriate.
If the House agrees, I shall follow Mr Evans' proposal.
Madam President, on a point of order.
Could you give me information on Article 143 concerning the inadmissibility?
My question concerns a matter which will be raised on Thursday and to which I will then refer again.
Parliament will look at the Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes on Thursday, which proposes, in paragraph 6, that countries which do not meet their target for fleet reduction should be subject to a kind of quota penalty annually.
Such penalties should be imposed despite the principle of relative stability.
I believe that the principle of relative stability constitutes an elementary legal principle of the common fisheries policy and that a proposal to undermine it would be legally inadmissible.
I would like to know whether it is possible to raise an objection to a document which is merely a report, not a legislative proposal, and whether I am empowered to do so on Thursday.
Exactly then, if you want, you can raise this question, that is, on Thursday at the beginning of the debate on the report.
Madam President! Unfortunately, the first session of this year's European Parliament coincides with the fact that in the United States, Texas, the execution of a 34-year-old young man named Hicks, who was sentenced to death.
At the request of a French Member, Mr Zimeray, a petition has already been tabled, which has been signed by many, including myself.
However, in line with the line which the European Parliament and the European Union as a whole, I would ask you to express all the influence of your office and the institution you represent to the presidential candidate and governor of Texas, George W. Bush, who is responsible for suspending the execution of the death sentence and the Pardon of the convicted person is empowered to assert.
All this is in line with the principles that we have always defended.
Thank you very much, Mr Segni, I would like to do that.
That is in line with the position that we as Parliament have always held.
Madam President! I would like to draw your attention to a case which this Parliament has repeatedly dealt with.
This is the case of Alexander Nikitin.
We are all pleased here that the Court has acquitted him and made it clear that in Russia, too, access to environmental information is constitutional law.
But now it is the case that he is to be accused again because the public prosecutor is appealing.
We know, and we have seen it in very many resolutions - especially during the last plenary session of last year - that this is not just a legal case and that it is wrong to accuse Alexander Nikitin of crime and betrayal because we, as people concerned, have a benefit from his results.
These results form the basis for the European programmes for the protection of the Barents Sea, and I therefore ask you to examine a draft letter describing the most important facts and to make this position clear in the light of Parliament's decisions in Russia.
Mrs Schroedter, I am happy to examine the related facts when I have received your letter.
Madam President, first of all, thank you for keeping the floor and now, in the first part-session of the new year, the range of television programmes in our offices has indeed been enormously expanded.
Nevertheless, Madam President, my wish was not fulfilled.
We are now able to receive two Finnish and one Portuguese, but still no Dutch channels. However, I asked you for a Dutch programme, because we Dutchmen, too, would like to follow the news when we are sent here every month in exile.
I would therefore like to ask you once again to ensure that a Dutch broadcaster is also fed in.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can tell you that this item is on the Quaestors agenda on Wednesday.
I hope that there will be a decision in your sense.
Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament does not comply with the occupational health and safety regulations it has adopted itself?
Why hasn't the air quality in this building been checked once since our choice?
Why has the OSH Committee not met once since 1998?
Why did not a fire safety exercise take place either in Brussels or in the Strasbourg Parliament building?
Why are there no fire safety instructions?
Why was nothing done after my accident to make the stairs safer?
Why is smoking not enforced in non-smoking areas?
It is a shame that we adopt rules that we do not adhere to ourselves.
Mrs Lynne, you are absolutely right, and I will check whether all this is really the case.
I will also put the question to the Quaestors. I am sure that these attach great importance to the fact that we ourselves comply with the legislation we are adopting.
Madam President! Mrs Díez González and I had asked a number of questions about certain statements made by the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, in a Spanish newspaper.
The relevant services did not include them on the agenda because they felt that they had already been answered at a previous meeting.
I ask you to reconsider this decision because that is not the case.
The questions answered earlier referred to Mrs de Palacio's appearance on a particular matter, not to the statements published in the daily ABC on 18 November last year.
Dear colleague, we will check this out.
I must tell you, however, that I think the situation is somewhat confused at the moment.
But we will check this very carefully, so that everything is correct.
Madam President, I would like to know whether this week Parliament will send out a clear signal of our dissatisfaction with today's decision to reject an extension of the arms embargo against Indonesia, especially as the vast majority in this Parliament have in the past voted for the arms embargo against Indonesia.
Today's decision against an extension of the embargo poses a very serious danger in view of the situation there.
Parliament should send a message, as this is in line with the desire of the large majority.
The refusal by EU Member States to extend the embargo is irresponsible.
As has already been noted, the situation in Indonesia is extremely unstable.
There is even a danger of a military coup.
We don't know what's happening.
So why should EU arms manufacturers make profits at the expense of innocent people?
This item has not yet been foreseen for Thursday's urgent debate.
Work plan
The next item is the examination of the final draft agenda as adopted by the Conference of Presidents on Thursday 13 January pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
There are no changes on Monday and Tuesday.
To Wednesday:
The S&D Group has requested that a Commission statement on its strategic objectives for the next five years and on the Commission's administrative reform should be included in the agenda.
I would ask the applicant, Mr Barón Crespo, to justify his request if he so wishes.
Then we proceed as usual: one speaker for it, one against it.
Madam President! The presentation of the Prodi Commission's political programme for the entire parliamentary term was based on a proposal from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which received the unanimous approval of the Conference of Presidents in September and also the express approval of President Prodi, who expressed his commitment in his inaugural speech reaffirmed.
This commitment is important in that the Commission is an institution which, according to the Treaties, has the monopoly of initiative and thus fundamentally shapes Parliament's political and legislative activities over the next five years.
I would also like to remind you that in the previous parliamentary term this Parliament expressed his confidence twice in President Prodi; during this parliamentary term it once again expressed its confidence in him in July, and then, when the new Commission was in office, there was a vote of confidence for the Commission as a whole in September.
Thus, the Commission has already had enough time to draw up its programme, and we can get to know it and explain it to the citizens.
In this sense, I would remind you of the resolution of 15 September, which recommended that the proposal be presented as soon as possible.
The events of last week - which began in the margins of the Conference of Presidents and which this conference was used only to confirm and ratify decisions taken outside - illustrate a dilemma: either the Commission is unable to present this programme (in this case it should be a Clarify.
According to her president, she is in a position to do so.
As the Commission is represented by the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, I think it is appropriate to know before the vote the Commission's position on its willingness to present the programme, as it was agreed.) or Parliament is not in a position to examine this programme, as some seem to have seen. pretend.
In my view, this second hypothesis would be a renunciation of our responsibilities as a Parliament and, moreover, an original thesis, an unknown method, which was to give the political groups the Commission's programmatic speech in writing a week before - and not, as agreed, on The day before, taking into account the fact that the legislative programme will be discussed in February so that we could do without the debate, because the press and the Internet would have informed all the citizens the day after, and Parliament would have no reason to deal with the matter.
Since my group believes that a Parliament is there to listen, debate and reflect, we believe that there is no reason to justify this delay, and we believe that if the Commission is in a position to do so, we are precisely in time for the initial agreement between Parliament and the Commission reinstate and be able to act responsibly in front of our fellow citizens.
That is why the proposal by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which you mentioned, is to keep Wednesday as the deadline for the presentation of the Prodi Commission's programme for the parliamentary term and to include in this programme the administrative reform project, otherwise we will be in a paradoxical situation. : the excuse that the text is not available on the one hand denied the President of the Commission the right to speak in this Parliament and, on the other hand, a debate on the reform would take place without this Parliament having been able to read the texts underlying the debate.
I therefore ask you, Madam President, to ask the Commission to comment now and to proceed to the vote afterwards.
(Applause from the PSE Group)
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I am somewhat surprised at the behaviour of Mr Barón Crespo, who is now demanding that this item be placed on the agenda for Wednesday.
Mr Barón Crespo, you were unable to attend the Conference of Presidents last Thursday.
I do not criticise that; it always happens that one can be represented.
Mr Hänsch represented you there.
We had a detailed debate in the Conference of Presidents.
Only your group has represented what you are saying now.
We then voted.
Every chairman or chairman has as many votes as the group has members.
There was a vote on this point.
I remember that this vote was as follows: 422 votes to 180 with a few abstentions.
In other words, all the political groups, except the non-attached Members - but they are not a group - agreed, only your group felt that we should proceed as you proposed here.
Everyone else disagreed.
That was the decision.
Now I want to say something about the matter myself.