Resumption of the session.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 December, I wish you all the best for the New Year and I hope you had a good holiday.
As you can see, the dreaded "Millennium Bug" did not occur. However, citizens of some of our Member States have been victims of terrible natural disasters.
There is a desire in Parliament for a debate during this part-session in the next few days.
Today I would like to ask you - this is also the wish of some Members - to observe a minute's silence in memory of all the victims of the storms, particularly in the various countries of the European Union.
I ask you to rise for a moment of silence.
(Parliament observed a minute's silence)
Madam President, on a point of order.
As you surely know from the press and television, there have been several bomb explosions in Sri Lanka with numerous deaths.
One of the recent victims of attacks in Sri Lanka was Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who visited the European Parliament only a few months ago.
Would it be appropriate for you, Madam President, to write to the President of Sri Lanka expressing Parliament's regret at the violent deaths of Mr Ponnambalam and other citizens of Sri Lanka and urging her to do everything in her power to seek a peaceful solution to this very difficult situation?
Yes, Mr Evans, I think that such an initiative is entirely appropriate.
If the House agrees, I will follow Mr Evans' suggestion.
Madam President, on a point of order.
Could you give me information on Article 143 in relation to inadmissibility?
My question concerns a matter which will be raised on Thursday and to which I will refer again at that time.
On Thursday Parliament will debate the Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes, which proposes in paragraph 6 that countries which fail to meet their target for fleet reduction should be subject to some form of quota penalty each year.
Such penalties should be imposed despite the principle of relative stability.
I believe that the principle of relative stability is a fundamental legal principle of the common fisheries policy and any proposal to undermine it would be legally inadmissible.
I would like to know whether it is possible to raise an objection to a document which is merely a report and not a legislative proposal, and whether I am authorised to do so on Thursday.
That is precisely when you can raise this issue if you wish, that is, on Thursday at the beginning of the debate on the report.
Madam President, unfortunately, the first part-session of the European Parliament this year coincides with the fact that in the United States, in Texas, the execution of a 34-year-old young man named Hicks, sentenced to death, has been scheduled for Thursday this week.
At the request of a French member, Mr Zimeray, a petition has already been submitted, which has been signed by many, including myself.
However, in accordance with the line now constantly taken by the European Parliament and the European Union as a whole, I would ask you to bring all the influence of your office and the institution you represent to bear on the presidential candidate and Governor of Texas, George W. Bush, who has the power to suspend the execution of the death sentence and pardon the condemned man.
All this is in line with the principles we have always defended.
Thank you very much, Mr Segni, I would like to do that.
That is entirely in line with the position that we in Parliament have always held.
Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to a case which this Parliament has dealt with time and again.
This is the case of Alexander Nikitin.
We are all pleased here that the court acquitted him and made it clear that access to environmental information is also a constitutional right in Russia.
But now it is the case that he is to be charged again because the public prosecutor is appealing.
We know and we have stated in a great many resolutions - particularly during the last plenary part-session of last year - that this is not just a legal case and that it is wrong to accuse Alexander Nikitin of crime and treason because we, as those affected by his findings, benefit from them.
These results are the basis for the European programmes for the protection of the Barents Sea, and that is why I would ask you to examine a draft letter describing the most important facts and to make this position clear in line with the decisions taken by Parliament in Russia.
Mrs Schroedter, I would be happy to examine the related facts when I receive your letter.
Madam President, first of all, thank you for keeping your word and for the fact that, in the first part-session of the new year, the range of television programmes available in our offices has actually increased enormously.
Nevertheless, Madam President, my request was not granted.
We can now receive two Finnish and one Portuguese channel, but still no Dutch channel. But I had asked you for a Dutch channel, because we Dutch also want to follow the news when we are sent here every month in exile.
I would therefore ask you again to ensure that a Dutch channel is also fed in.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can inform you that this item is on the Quaestors' agenda for Wednesday.
I hope that a decision will be taken there in your favour.
Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament is not abiding by the health and safety regulations that it has itself adopted?
Why has the air quality in this building not been checked once since our election?
Why has the Health and Safety Committee not met once since 1998?
Why has there been no fire drill in either the Brussels or Strasbourg Parliament buildings?
Why is there no fire protection instruction?
Why was nothing done to make the stairs safer after my accident?
Why is the smoking ban not enforced in non-smoking areas?
It is a shame that we adopt rules which we then do not follow ourselves.
Mrs Lynne, you are quite right, and I will check whether all this is true.
I shall also submit the question to the Quaestors. I am sure that they will attach great importance to the fact that we ourselves comply with the legislation we adopt.
Madam President, Mrs Díez González and I had asked a number of questions about certain statements by the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, which appeared in a Spanish newspaper.
The competent services did not include them on the agenda as they considered that they had already been answered at a previous meeting.
I ask you to reconsider this decision, because that is not the case.
The questions answered earlier related to Mrs de Palacio's appearance on a particular matter, not to the statements published in the ABC newspaper on 18 November last year.
Dear colleague, we will check that.
I must tell you, however, that I think the situation is somewhat confused at the moment.
But we will check this very carefully so that everything is correct.
Madam President, I would like to know whether this week Parliament will send a clear signal of our dissatisfaction with today's decision refusing to extend the arms embargo on Indonesia, especially since the vast majority in this Parliament has in the past supported the arms embargo on Indonesia.
Today's decision against an extension of the embargo poses a very great danger given the situation there.
Parliament should send a message to this effect, as this is the wish of the vast majority.
The EU Member States' refusal to extend the embargo is irresponsible.
As stated above, the situation in Indonesia is highly unstable.
There is even the danger of a military coup.
We don't know what's happening.
So why should arms manufacturers in the EU make profits at the expense of innocent people?
This item has not yet been scheduled for the topical and urgent debate on Thursday.
Work plan
The next item is the final draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents on Thursday 13 January pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
There are no changes to Monday and Tuesday.
To Wednesday:
The Socialist Group requests that a Commission statement on its strategic objectives for the next five years and on the administrative reform of the Commission be included on the agenda.
I would ask the applicant, Mr Barón Crespo, to justify his request, if he so wishes.
Then we proceed as usual: one speaker for and one against.
Madam President, the presentation of the Prodi Commission's political programme for the entire parliamentary term was based on a proposal from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which received the unanimous approval of the Conference of Presidents in September and also the explicit agreement of President Prodi, who confirmed his commitment in his inaugural speech.
This commitment is important because the Commission is an institution which, under the Treaties, has a monopoly of initiative and will therefore be fundamental to the political and legislative activity of this Parliament over the next five years.
I would also like to remind you that, during the previous legislature, this Parliament twice expressed its confidence in President Prodi; during this legislature, it again expressed its confidence in July, and then, when the new Commission was in office, there was another vote of confidence in September for the Commission as a whole.
So the Commission has already had enough time to draw up its programme and we have had enough time to get to know it and explain it to the citizens.
In this respect, I would remind you of the resolution of 15 September, which recommended that the proposal be presented in the shortest possible time.
The events of the past week - which began in the margins of the Conference of Presidents and which was used only to confirm and ratify decisions taken outside it - illustrate a dilemma: either the Commission is not in a position to present this programme (in which case it should seek clarification), or it is not in a position to do so.
According to her president, she is able to do so.
Since the Commission is represented by the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, I think it would be useful, before the vote, to know the Commission's position on its willingness to present the programme, as agreed), or Parliament will not be able to examine this programme, as some people seem to claim.
In my opinion, this second hypothesis would be tantamount to waiving our responsibility as Parliament and, moreover, to raising an original hypothesis, an unknown method, which would consist of informing the political groups of the Commission's programme speech in writing one week in advance - and not, as agreed, the day before - bearing in mind that the legislative programme will be debated in February, so that we could dispense with the debate, since the press and the Internet would have informed all the citizens the following day and Parliament would no longer have any reason to deal with the matter.
Since my group believes that a Parliament is there to listen, to debate and to reflect, we believe that there is no reason to justify this delay and we believe that, if the Commission is able to do so, we are precisely in time to reinstate the original agreement between Parliament and the Commission and to be able to appear responsibly before our fellow citizens.
Therefore, the proposal of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which you mentioned, is to maintain Wednesday as the date for the presentation of the Prodi Commission's programme for the parliamentary term and to include in this programme the administrative reform project, because otherwise we could find ourselves in a paradoxical situation: The excuse of not having the text is, on the one hand, to deny the President of the Commission the right to speak in this Parliament and, on the other hand, to hold a debate on the reform without this Parliament having been able to read the texts on which the debate is based.
I therefore ask you, Madam President, to ask the Commission to speak now and then to proceed to the vote.
(Applause from the PSE Group)
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am somewhat surprised at the behaviour of Mr Barón Crespo, who is now demanding that this item be placed on Wednesday's agenda.
Mr Barón Crespo, you were unable to be present at the Conference of Presidents last Thursday.
I am not criticizing that; it always happens that you let yourself be represented.
Mr Hänsch represented you there.
We have had an extensive debate in the Conference of Presidents.
Only your group has supported what you are now saying.
We then took a vote.
Each chairperson has as many votes as the group has members.
There was a vote on this point.
I remember the result of this vote: 422 votes in favour, 180 against and a few abstentions.
In other words, all the groups, with the exception of the Non-attached Members - but they are not a group - were in agreement; only your group was of the opinion that it should proceed as you have proposed here.
Everyone else thought otherwise.
That was the decision.
Now I would like to say something about the matter itself.