Resumption of the session.
I declare that the session of the European Parliament, which was interrupted on Friday 17 December, has been resumed, once again I wish you all the best for the New Year and hope you had a wonderful holiday.
As you could see, the dreaded "millennium bug" did not occur. However, citizens of some of our Member States have been victims of terrible natural disasters.
There is a desire in Parliament for a debate during this session in the next few days.
Today I would like to ask you - this is also the wish of some colleagues - to commemorate all the victims of the storms, especially in the various countries of the European Union, in a minute's silence.
I ask you to stand up for a minute's silence.
(Parliament rose to a minute's silence.)
Madam President, on the rules of procedure.
As you probably know from the press and television, there have been several bomb explosions in Sri Lanka with numerous deaths.
The victims of the recent attack in Sri Lanka include Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who only visited the European Parliament a few months ago.
Would it be appropriate if you, Madam President, sent a letter to the President of Sri Lanka expressing Parliament's regret at the violent death of Mr Ponnambalam and other citizens of Sri Lanka and asking them to do everything in their power to do so to seek a peaceful solution to this very difficult situation?
Yes, Mr Evans, I think that such an initiative is definitely appropriate.
If the house agrees, I will follow Mr Evans' suggestion.
Madam President, on the rules of procedure.
Could you give me information on Article 143 related to inadmissibility?
My question is about a matter that will come up on Thursday and which I will refer to again.
Parliament will deal with the Cunha report on multiannual guidance programs on Thursday, which, in paragraph 6, proposes that countries that fail to meet their fleet reduction target should be subject to a quota penalty of some sort each year.
Such punishments should be imposed despite the principle of relative stability.
I believe that the principle of relative stability is an elementary legal principle of the common fisheries policy and that a proposal to undermine it would be legally inadmissible.
I would like to know whether it is possible to object to a document that is only a report and not a legislative proposal and whether I am authorized to do so on Thursday.
This is exactly when you can, if you want, to address this question, i. H. on Thursday at the beginning of the debate on the report.
Madam President! Unfortunately, the first session of the European Parliament this year coincides with the fact that the execution of a 34-year-old young man named Hicks, sentenced to death, has been scheduled for Thursday this week in the United States, Texas.
At the request of a French member, Mr Zimeray, a petition has already been submitted and has been signed by many, including myself.
However, in line with the line now being adopted by the European Parliament and the European Union as a whole, I would ask you to use all the influence of your office and the institution you represent on the Texas presidential candidate and governor, George W. Bush is entitled to enforce the death sentence and pardon the convicted person.
All of this corresponds to the principles that we have always defended.
Thank you very much, Mr Segni, I would like to do that.
That is in the spirit of the position that we as Parliament have always held.
Madam President! I would like to draw your attention to a case that has been dealt with repeatedly by this Parliament.
That is the case of Alexander Nikitin.
We are all pleased that the court has acquitted him and made it clear that access to environmental information is constitutional in Russia too.
Now it is the case that he should be charged again because the prosecutor is appealing.
We know and we have found it in a very large number of resolutions - particularly during the last plenary session last year - that this is not just a legal case and that it is wrong to accuse Alexander Nikitin of crime and treason because we, as the victims, are concerned by his Results have a benefit.
These results are the basis for the European programs for the protection of the Barents Sea, and therefore I ask you to examine a draft letter, which gives you the most important facts, and to make this position clear in line with the decisions of the Parliament in Russia.
Ms. Schroedter, I would be happy to examine the related facts when I have your letter.
Madam President, first of all, many thanks for keeping your word and for the fact that the range of television programs in our offices has actually expanded enormously in the first part of the new year.
However, Madam President, my request was not met.
We can now receive two Finnish and one Portuguese, but still no Dutch channels. But I asked you for a Dutch program because we Dutch would also like to follow the news if we are exiled here every month.
I would therefore like to ask you once again to ensure that a Dutch station is also included.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can tell you that this item is on the Quaestors' agenda on Wednesday.
I hope that it will be decided on your behalf.
Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament is not adhering to the occupational safety and health regulations that it itself adopted?
Why has the air quality in this building not been checked once since our choice?
Why has the OSH Committee not met once since 1998?
Why didn't a fire drill take place in either the Brussels or Strasbourg parliament buildings?
Why are there no fire protection instructions?
Why was nothing done after my accident to make the stairs safer?
Why is the smoking ban not enforced in the non-smoking areas?
It is a shame that we adopt rules that we then do not adhere to.
Ms. Lynne, you are absolutely right and I will check whether all of this is really the case.
I will also submit the question to the Quaestors. I am sure that they attach great importance to ensuring that we ourselves comply with the legislation that we adopt.
Madam President! Ms. Díez González and I had made a number of requests for certain comments from the Vice President, Ms. de Palacio, which was published in a Spanish newspaper.
The relevant services did not include them on the agenda because they believed that they had already been answered in a previous meeting.
I ask you to reconsider this decision because it is not.
The questions answered earlier related to the appearance of Ms de Palacio in a particular matter, not to the statements published in the ABC newspaper on 18 November last year.
Dear colleague, we will check that.
But I have to tell you that at the moment I think the situation is somewhat confused.
We will examine this very carefully so that everything is correct.
Madam President, I would like to know whether this week Parliament will be sending out a clear signal of our dissatisfaction with today's decision to reject an extension of the arms embargo against Indonesia, especially since the vast majority in this Parliament have voted in the past Arms embargo against Indonesia.
Today's decision against an extension of the embargo poses a very great danger given the situation there.
As this is in line with the wishes of the vast majority, Parliament should send a message to that effect.
The rejection of an extension of the embargo by the EU member states is irresponsible.
As has already been stated, the situation in Indonesia is extremely unstable.
There is even a risk of a military coup.
We don't know what's going on.
So why should arms manufacturers in the EU make profits at the expense of innocent people?
So far, this point is not intended for the urgency debate on Thursday.
work schedule
The agenda will be followed by a review of the final draft agenda as determined by the Conference of Presidents on Thursday 13 January, pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
There are no changes on Monday and Tuesday.
For Wednesday:
The Socialist Group requested that a statement from the Commission on the strategic objectives for the next five years and on the administrative reform of the Commission be put on the agenda.
I ask the applicant, Mr Barón Crespo, to justify his request if he so wishes.
Then we proceed as usual: one speaker for, one against.
Madam President! The presentation of the Prodi political program for the entire parliamentary term was based on a proposal by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which was unanimously approved by the Conference of Presidents in September and also expressly approved by President Prodi, who accepted his inaugural speech affirmed.
This commitment is important in that the Commission is a body that has the initiative monopoly under the Treaties and will thus fundamentally shape the political and legislative work of this Parliament over the next five years.
I would also like to remind you that this Parliament has twice expressed its confidence in President Prodi in the previous legislature; During this parliamentary term, he again expressed his confidence in July, and then, when the new commission was in office, there was again a vote of confidence for the commission as a whole in September.
This gave the Commission enough time to prepare its program, and we had to get to know it and explain it to the citizens.
With this in mind, I recall the resolution of 15 September recommending that the proposal be presented as soon as possible.
The events of the past week - which started on the sidelines of the Conference of Presidents and which was used only for the confirmation and ratification of decisions taken outside - illustrate a dilemma: either the Commission is unable to present this program (In in this case it should clarify.
According to her president, she is able to do this.
Since the Commission is represented by the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, I think it is useful to find out, before the vote, the Commission's position regarding its willingness to present the program as agreed) or Parliament unable to test this program, as some appear to pretend.
In my view, this second hypothesis would amount to renouncing our responsibility as Parliament and, moreover, to raising an original thesis, an unknown method, which would be to give the political groups the programmatic speech of the Commission in writing a week before - and not how agreed to be informed the day before, bearing in mind that the legislative program would be discussed in February, so that we could do without the debate, since the press and the Internet would have informed all citizens the day after and Parliament no longer had any reason to deal with the matter.
Since my group believes that a Parliament is there to listen, discuss and think, there is no reason in our view to justify this delay, and we believe that if the Commission is able to do that we will be right there the time to put the original agreement between Parliament and the Commission back into effect and to be able to act responsibly before our fellow citizens.
That is why the proposal by the Group of the Party of European Socialists that you mentioned is to keep Wednesday as the date for the presentation of the Commission Prodi program for the parliamentary term, and to include the administrative reform project in this program, otherwise we will be in a paradoxical situation The excuse that the wording is not available is, on the one hand, denying the President of the Commission the right to speak in this Parliament and, on the other hand, a debate on the reform would take place without this Parliament having been able to read the texts that underlying the debate.
I would therefore ask you, Madam President, to ask the Commission to speak up now and then to vote.
(Applause from the PSE Group)
Madam President, dear colleagues! I am a little surprised at the behavior of Mr Barón Crespo, who is now demanding that this item on the agenda be placed on Wednesday's agenda.
Mr Barón Crespo, you were unable to attend the Conference of Presidents last Thursday.
I don't criticize that; it happens from time to time to be represented.
The colleague Hänsch represented you there.
We had an extensive debate in the Conference of Presidents.
Only your group represented what you are saying now.
We then voted.
Each chairperson has as many votes as the parliamentary group has members.
There was a vote on this point.
As I remember, this vote went like this: 422 against 180 votes with a few abstentions.
That is, all groups, with the exception of the non-attached - but they are not a group - agreed, only your group was of the opinion that you should proceed as you proposed here.
Everyone else disagreed.
That was the decision.
Now I want to say something about the matter myself.