Deutsch
Englisch
DeepL
Google
Microsoft

Wiederaufnahme der Sitzungsperiode.
Resumption of the session.
Resumption of the session.
Resumption of the session.
Resumption of the session.

Ich erkläre die am Freitag, dem 17. Dezember unterbrochene Sitzungsperiode des Europäischen Parlaments für wiederaufgenommen, wünsche Ihnen nochmals alles Gute zum Jahreswechsel und hoffe, daß Sie schöne Ferien hatten.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 December 1999, and I would like once again to wish you a happy new year in the hope that you enjoyed a pleasant festive period.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 December, I wish you all the best for the New Year and I hope you had a good holiday.
I declare that the session of the European Parliament, which was interrupted on Friday 17 December, has been resumed, once again I wish you all the best for the New Year and hope you had a wonderful holiday.
I declare the european Parliament's session, which was suspended on Friday 17 December, to be resumed, i hope that you will once again have had a good time at the turn of the year.

Wie Sie feststellen konnten, ist der gefürchtete "Millenium-Bug " nicht eingetreten. Doch sind Bürger einiger unserer Mitgliedstaaten Opfer von schrecklichen Naturkatastrophen geworden.
Although, as you will have seen, the dreaded 'millennium bug' failed to materialise, still the people in a number of countries suffered a series of natural disasters that truly were dreadful.
As you can see, the dreaded "Millennium Bug" did not occur. However, citizens of some of our Member States have been victims of terrible natural disasters.
As you could see, the dreaded "millennium bug" did not occur. However, citizens of some of our Member States have been victims of terrible natural disasters.
As you have seen, the dreaded 'millennium bug' has not occurred. However, citizens of some of our Member States have fallen victim to terrible natural disasters.

Im Parlament besteht der Wunsch nach einer Aussprache im Verlauf dieser Sitzungsperiode in den nächsten Tagen.
You have requested a debate on this subject in the course of the next few days, during this part-session.
There is a desire in Parliament for a debate during this part-session in the next few days.
There is a desire in Parliament for a debate during this session in the next few days.
There is a desire in Parliament for a debate in the course of this part-session in the next few days.

Heute möchte ich Sie bitten - das ist auch der Wunsch einiger Kolleginnen und Kollegen -, allen Opfern der Stürme, insbesondere in den verschiedenen Ländern der Europäischen Union, in einer Schweigeminute zu gedenken.
In the meantime, I should like to observe a minute' s silence, as a number of Members have requested, on behalf of all the victims concerned, particularly those of the terrible storms, in the various countries of the European Union.
Today I would like to ask you - this is also the wish of some Members - to observe a minute's silence in memory of all the victims of the storms, particularly in the various countries of the European Union.
Today I would like to ask you - this is also the wish of some colleagues - to commemorate all the victims of the storms, especially in the various countries of the European Union, in a minute's silence.
Today I would ask you - and this is also the wish of some members - to observe a minute's silence in memory of all the victims of the storms, particularly in the various countries of the European Union.

Ich bitte Sie, sich zu einer Schweigeminute zu erheben.
Please rise, then, for this minute' s silence.
I ask you to rise for a moment of silence.
I ask you to stand up for a minute's silence.
I would ask you to observe a minute's silence.

(Das Parlament erhebt sich zu einer Schweigeminute.)
(The House rose and observed a minute' s silence)
(Parliament observed a minute's silence)
(Parliament rose to a minute's silence.)
(The House rose and observed a minute's silence)

Frau Präsidentin, zur Geschäftsordnung.
Madam President, on a point of order.
Madam President, on a point of order.
Madam President, on the rules of procedure.
Madam President, on a point of order.

Wie Sie sicher aus der Presse und dem Fernsehen wissen, gab es in Sri Lanka mehrere Bombenexplosionen mit zahlreichen Toten.
You will be aware from the press and television that there have been a number of bomb explosions and killings in Sri Lanka.
As you surely know from the press and television, there have been several bomb explosions in Sri Lanka with numerous deaths.
As you probably know from the press and television, there have been several bomb explosions in Sri Lanka with numerous deaths.
As you will know from the press and television, there have been several bomb explosions in Sri Lanka, with numerous deaths.

Zu den Attentatsopfern, die es in jüngster Zeit in Sri Lanka zu beklagen gab, zählt auch Herr Kumar Ponnambalam, der dem Europäischen Parlament erst vor wenigen Monaten einen Besuch abgestattet hatte.
One of the people assassinated very recently in Sri Lanka was Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who had visited the European Parliament just a few months ago.
One of the recent victims of attacks in Sri Lanka was Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who visited the European Parliament only a few months ago.
The victims of the recent attack in Sri Lanka include Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who only visited the European Parliament a few months ago.
Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who visited the European Parliament only a few months ago, is one of the recent victims of the attack in Sri Lanka.

Wäre es angemessen, wenn Sie, Frau Präsidentin, der Präsidentin von Sri Lanka in einem Schreiben das Bedauern des Parlaments zum gewaltsamen Tod von Herrn Ponnambalam und anderen Bürgern von Sri Lanka übermitteln und sie auffordern würden, alles in ihrem Kräften stehende zu tun, um nach einer friedlichen Lösung dieser sehr schwierigen Situation zu suchen?
Would it be appropriate for you, Madam President, to write a letter to the Sri Lankan President expressing Parliament's regret at his and the other violent deaths in Sri Lanka and urging her to do everything she possibly can to seek a peaceful reconciliation to a very difficult situation?
Would it be appropriate for you, Madam President, to write to the President of Sri Lanka expressing Parliament's regret at the violent deaths of Mr Ponnambalam and other citizens of Sri Lanka and urging her to do everything in her power to seek a peaceful solution to this very difficult situation?
Would it be appropriate if you, Madam President, sent a letter to the President of Sri Lanka expressing Parliament's regret at the violent death of Mr Ponnambalam and other citizens of Sri Lanka and asking them to do everything in their power to do so to seek a peaceful solution to this very difficult situation?
Would it be appropriate if you, Madam President, sent a letter to the President of Sri Lanka conveying Parliament's regret saplor for the violent deaths of Mr Ponnambalam and other sri Lankan citizens and calling on them to do everything in their power to find a peaceful solution to this very difficult situation?

Ja, Herr Evans, ich denke, daß eine derartige Initiative durchaus angebracht ist.
Yes, Mr Evans, I feel an initiative of the type you have just suggested would be entirely appropriate.
Yes, Mr Evans, I think that such an initiative is entirely appropriate.
Yes, Mr Evans, I think that such an initiative is definitely appropriate.
Yes, Mr Evans, I think that such an initiative is entirely appropriate.

Wenn das Haus damit einverstanden ist, werde ich dem Vorschlag von Herrn Evans folgen.
If the House agrees, I shall do as Mr Evans has suggested.
If the House agrees, I will follow Mr Evans' suggestion.
If the house agrees, I will follow Mr Evans' suggestion.
If the House agrees, I will follow Mr Evans' proposal.

Frau Präsidentin, zur Geschäftsordnung.
Madam President, on a point of order.
Madam President, on a point of order.
Madam President, on the rules of procedure.
Madam President, on a point of order.

Könnten Sie mir eine Auskunft zu Artikel 143 im Zusammenhang mit der Unzulässigkeit geben?
I would like your advice about Rule 143 concerning inadmissibility.
Could you give me information on Article 143 in relation to inadmissibility?
Could you give me information on Article 143 related to inadmissibility?
Could you give me information on Article 143 in relation to inadmissibility?

Meine Frage betrifft eine Angelegenheit, die am Donnerstag zur Sprache kommen wird und auf die ich dann erneut verweisen werde.
My question relates to something that will come up on Thursday and which I will then raise again.
My question concerns a matter which will be raised on Thursday and to which I will refer again at that time.
My question is about a matter that will come up on Thursday and which I will refer to again.
My question concerns a matter which will be raised on Thursday and which I will refer to again.

Das Parlament wird sich am Donnerstag mit dem Cunha-Bericht über mehrjährige Ausrichtungsprogramme befassen, der in Absatz 6 vorschlägt, daß Länder, die ihr Soll zur Flottenverkleinerung nicht erfüllen, jährlich mit einer Art Quotenstrafe belegt werden sollen.
The Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes comes before Parliament on Thursday and contains a proposal in paragraph 6 that a form of quota penalties should be introduced for countries which fail to meet their fleet reduction targets annually.
On Thursday Parliament will debate the Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes, which proposes in paragraph 6 that countries which fail to meet their target for fleet reduction should be subject to some form of quota penalty each year.
Parliament will deal with the Cunha report on multiannual guidance programs on Thursday, which, in paragraph 6, proposes that countries that fail to meet their fleet reduction target should be subject to a quota penalty of some sort each year.
On Thursday, Parliament will consider the Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes, which proposes in paragraph 6 that countries that do not meet their fleet reduction target should be subject to a kind of quota penalty each year.

Und zwar sollen derartige Strafen trotz des Grundsatzes der relativen Stabilität verhängt werden.
It says that this should be done despite the principle of relative stability.
Such penalties should be imposed despite the principle of relative stability.
Such punishments should be imposed despite the principle of relative stability.
In doing so, such penalties should be imposed despite the principle of relative stability.

Ich meine, daß der Grundsatz der relativen Stabilität einen elementaren Rechtsgrundsatz der gemeinsamen Fischereipolitik darstellt und ein Vorschlag, diesen zu unterlaufen, rechtlich unzulässig wäre.
I believe that the principle of relative stability is a fundamental legal principle of the common fisheries policy and a proposal to subvert it would be legally inadmissible.
I believe that the principle of relative stability is a fundamental legal principle of the common fisheries policy and any proposal to undermine it would be legally inadmissible.
I believe that the principle of relative stability is an elementary legal principle of the common fisheries policy and that a proposal to undermine it would be legally inadmissible.
I believe that the principle of relative stability is a fundamental legal principle of the common fisheries policy and that a proposal to undermine it would be legally inadmissible.

Ich möchte wissen, ob es möglich ist, einen Einwand gegen ein Dokument zu erheben, bei dem es sich lediglich um einen Bericht und keinen Legislativvorschlag handelt, und ob ich befugt bin, dies am Donnerstag zu tun.
I want to know whether one can raise an objection of that kind to what is merely a report, not a legislative proposal, and whether that is something I can competently do on Thursday.
I would like to know whether it is possible to raise an objection to a document which is merely a report and not a legislative proposal, and whether I am authorised to do so on Thursday.
I would like to know whether it is possible to object to a document that is only a report and not a legislative proposal and whether I am authorized to do so on Thursday.
I would like to know whether it is possible to raise an objection to a document which is merely a report and not a legislative proposal, and whether I have the power to do so on Thursday.

Genau dann können Sie, wenn Sie wollen, diese Frage ansprechen, d. h. am Donnerstag zu Beginn der Aussprache über den Bericht.
That is precisely the time when you may, if you wish, raise this question, i.e. on Thursday prior to the start of the presentation of the report.
That is precisely when you can raise this issue if you wish, that is, on Thursday at the beginning of the debate on the report.
This is exactly when you can, if you want, to address this question, i. H. on Thursday at the beginning of the debate on the report.
That is precisely when you can raise this issue, if you wish, on Thursday at the beginning of the debate on the report.

Frau Präsidentin! Die erste diesjährige Tagung des Europäischen Parlaments fällt leider damit zusammen, daß in den Vereinigten Staaten, in Texas, für Donnerstag dieser Woche die Hinrichtung eines zum Tode verurteilten 34jährigen jungen Mannes namens Hicks festgelegt worden ist.
Madam President, coinciding with this year' s first part-session of the European Parliament, a date has been set, unfortunately for next Thursday, in Texas in America, for the execution of a young 34 year-old man who has been sentenced to death. We shall call him Mr Hicks.
Madam President, unfortunately, the first part-session of the European Parliament this year coincides with the fact that in the United States, in Texas, the execution of a 34-year-old young man named Hicks, sentenced to death, has been scheduled for Thursday this week.
Madam President! Unfortunately, the first session of the European Parliament this year coincides with the fact that the execution of a 34-year-old young man named Hicks, sentenced to death, has been scheduled for Thursday this week in the United States, Texas.
Madam President! Unfortunately, this year's first session of the European Parliament coincides with the fact that in the United States, in Texas, the execution of a 34-year-old young man named Hicks, who has been sentenced to death, has been scheduled for Thursday this week.

Auf Wunsch eines französischen Mitglieds, Herrn Zimeray, wurde bereits eine Petition eingereicht, die von vielen, auch von mir selbst, unterzeichnet worden ist.
At the request of a French Member, Mr Zimeray, a petition has already been presented, which many people signed, including myself.
At the request of a French member, Mr Zimeray, a petition has already been submitted, which has been signed by many, including myself.
At the request of a French member, Mr Zimeray, a petition has already been submitted and has been signed by many, including myself.
At the request of a French Member, Mr Zimeray, a petition has already been submitted, which has been signed by many, including myself.

Gemäß der vom Europäischen Parlament und von der gesamten Europäischen Union nunmehr ständig vertretenen Linie möchte ich Sie jedoch bitten, den ganzen Einfluß Ihres Amtes und der Institution, die Sie vertreten, bei dem Präsidentschaftskandidaten und Gouverneur von Texas, George W. Bush, der zur Aussetzung der Vollstreckung des Todesurteils und zur Begnadigung des Verurteilten befugt ist, geltend zu machen.
However, I would ask you, in accordance with the line which is now constantly followed by the European Parliament and by the whole of the European Community, to make representations, using the weight of your prestigious office and the institution you represent, to the President and to the Governor of Texas, Mr Bush, who has the power to order a stay of execution and to reprieve the condemned person.
However, in accordance with the line now constantly taken by the European Parliament and the European Union as a whole, I would ask you to bring all the influence of your office and the institution you represent to bear on the presidential candidate and Governor of Texas, George W. Bush, who has the power to suspend the execution of the death sentence and pardon the condemned man.
However, in line with the line now being adopted by the European Parliament and the European Union as a whole, I would ask you to use all the influence of your office and the institution you represent on the Texas presidential candidate and governor, George W. Bush is entitled to enforce the death sentence and pardon the convicted person.
However, in accordance with the line now constantly adopted by the European Parliament and by the European Union as a whole, I would ask you to use all the influence of your office and the institution you represent with the presidential candidate and Governor of Texas, George W. Bush, who has the power to suspend the execution of the death sentence and to pardon the convict.

All dies entspricht den Grundsätzen, die wir stets verteidigt haben.
This is all in accordance with the principles that we have always upheld.
All this is in line with the principles we have always defended.
All of this corresponds to the principles that we have always defended.
All this is in line with the principles that we have always defended.

Vielen Dank, Herr Segni, das will ich gerne tun.
Thank you, Mr Segni, I shall do so gladly.
Thank you very much, Mr Segni, I would like to do that.
Thank you very much, Mr Segni, I would like to do that.
Thank you, Mr Segni, I would like to do so.

Das ist ganz im Sinne der Position, die wir als Parlament immer vertreten haben.
Indeed, it is quite in keeping with the positions this House has always adopted.
That is entirely in line with the position that we in Parliament have always held.
That is in the spirit of the position that we as Parliament have always held.
That is in line with the position that we as a Parliament have always taken.

Frau Präsidentin! Ich möchte Sie auf einen Fall aufmerksam machen, mit dem sich dieses Parlament immer wieder befaßt hat.
Madam President, I should like to draw your attention to a case in which this Parliament has consistently shown an interest.
Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to a case which this Parliament has dealt with time and again.
Madam President! I would like to draw your attention to a case that has been dealt with repeatedly by this Parliament.
Madam President! I would like to draw your attention to a case that this Parliament has dealt with time and again.

Das ist der Fall von Alexander Nikitin.
It is the case of Alexander Nikitin.
This is the case of Alexander Nikitin.
That is the case of Alexander Nikitin.
This is the case of Alexander Nikitin.

Wir freuen uns hier alle, daß das Gericht ihn freigesprochen und deutlich gemacht hat, daß auch in Rußland der Zugang zu Umweltinformationen konstitutionelles Recht ist.
All of us here are pleased that the courts have acquitted him and made it clear that in Russia, too, access to environmental information is a constitutional right.
We are all pleased here that the court acquitted him and made it clear that access to environmental information is also a constitutional right in Russia.
We are all pleased that the court has acquitted him and made it clear that access to environmental information is constitutional in Russia too.
We are all pleased that the court acquitted him and made it clear that access to environmental information is constitutional law in Russia too.

Nun ist es aber so, daß er wieder angeklagt werden soll, weil der Staatsanwalt in Berufung geht.
Now, however, he is to go before the courts once more because the public prosecutor is appealing.
But now it is the case that he is to be charged again because the public prosecutor is appealing.
Now it is the case that he should be charged again because the prosecutor is appealing.
But now he is to be indicted again because the prosecutor is appealing.

Wir wissen und wir haben es in wirklich sehr vielen Entschließungen festgestellt - gerade während der letzten Plenartagung des vergangenen Jahres-, daß dies nicht nur ein juristischer Fall ist und daß es falsch ist, Alexander Nikitin Kriminalität und Verrat vorzuwerfen, weil wir als Betroffene von seinen Ergebnissen einen Nutzen haben.
We know, and we have stated as much in very many resolutions indeed, including specifically during the last plenary part-session of last year, that this is not solely a legal case and that it is wrong for Alexander Nikitin to be accused of criminal activity and treason because of our involvement as the beneficiaries of his findings.
We know and we have stated in a great many resolutions - particularly during the last plenary part-session of last year - that this is not just a legal case and that it is wrong to accuse Alexander Nikitin of crime and treason because we, as those affected by his findings, benefit from them.
We know and we have found it in a very large number of resolutions - particularly during the last plenary session last year - that this is not just a legal case and that it is wrong to accuse Alexander Nikitin of crime and treason because we, as the victims, are concerned by his Results have a benefit.
We know, and we have noted it in a great many resolutions - particularly during the last part-session of last year - that this is not just a legal case and that it is wrong to accuse Alexander Nikitin of crime and treason, because we, as those affected, benefit from his findings.

Diese Ergebnisse sind die Grundlage für die europäischen Programme zum Schutz der Barentsee, und deswegen bitte ich Sie, einen Briefentwurf, der Ihnen die wichtigsten Fakten schildert, zu prüfen und im Sinne der Beschlüsse des Parlaments in Rußland diese Position deutlich zu machen.
These findings form the basis of the European programmes to protect the Barents Sea, and that is why I would ask you to examine a draft letter setting out the most important facts and to make Parliament's position, as expressed in the resolutions which it has adopted, clear as far as Russia is concerned.
These results are the basis for the European programmes for the protection of the Barents Sea, and that is why I would ask you to examine a draft letter describing the most important facts and to make this position clear in line with the decisions taken by Parliament in Russia.
These results are the basis for the European programs for the protection of the Barents Sea, and therefore I ask you to examine a draft letter, which gives you the most important facts, and to make this position clear in line with the decisions of the Parliament in Russia.
These results are the basis for the European programmes for the protection of the Barents Sea, and I would therefore ask you to examine a draft letter outtosing the most important facts and to make this position clear in line with Parliament's decisions in Russia.

Frau Schroedter, ich bin gerne bereit, die damit zusammenhängenden Fakten zu prüfen, wenn mir Ihr Brief vorliegt.
Yes, Mrs Schroedter, I shall be pleased to look into the facts of this case when I have received your letter.
Mrs Schroedter, I would be happy to examine the related facts when I receive your letter.
Ms. Schroedter, I would be happy to examine the related facts when I have your letter.
Mrs Schroedter, I am happy to examine the facts that go with it when I have received your letter.

Frau Präsidentin, zunächst besten Dank dafür, daß Sie Wort gehalten haben und nun in der ersten Sitzungsperiode des neuen Jahres das Angebot an Fernsehprogrammen in unseren Büros tatsächlich enorm erweitert ist.
Madam President, I would firstly like to compliment you on the fact that you have kept your word and that, during this first part-session of the new year, the number of television channels in our offices has indeed increased considerably.
Madam President, first of all, thank you for keeping your word and for the fact that, in the first part-session of the new year, the range of television programmes available in our offices has actually increased enormously.
Madam President, first of all, many thanks for keeping your word and for the fact that the range of television programs in our offices has actually expanded enormously in the first part of the new year.
Madam President, first of all, thank you very much for keeping your word and for actually expanding the range of television programmes in our offices in the first part-session of the new year.

Dennoch, Frau Präsidentin, wurde meinem Wunsch nicht entsprochen.
But, Madam President, my personal request has not been met.
Nevertheless, Madam President, my request was not granted.
However, Madam President, my request was not met.
Nevertheless, Madam President, my request has not been met.

Zwar können wir jetzt zwei finnische und einen portugiesischen, nach wie vor aber keinen niederländischen Sender empfangen. Ich hatte Sie aber um ein niederländisches Programm gebeten, denn auch wir Niederländer möchten die Nachrichten verfolgen, wenn wir jeden Monat hierher in die Verbannung geschickt werden.
Although there are now two Finnish channels and one Portuguese one, there is still no Dutch channel, which is what I had requested because Dutch people here like to be able to follow the news too when we are sent to this place of exile every month.
We can now receive two Finnish and one Portuguese channel, but still no Dutch channel. But I had asked you for a Dutch channel, because we Dutch also want to follow the news when we are sent here every month in exile.
We can now receive two Finnish and one Portuguese, but still no Dutch channels. But I asked you for a Dutch program because we Dutch would also like to follow the news if we are exiled here every month.
We can now receive two Finnish and one Portuguese, but still no Dutch channel. However, I asked you for a Dutch programme, because we Dutch, too, would like to follow the news when we are sent here every month to exile.

Deshalb möchte ich Sie nochmals ersuchen, dafür Sorge zu tragen, daß auch ein niederländischer Sender eingespeist wird.
I would therefore once more ask you to ensure that we get a Dutch channel as well.
I would therefore ask you again to ensure that a Dutch channel is also fed in.
I would therefore like to ask you once again to ensure that a Dutch station is also included.
I would therefore ask you once again to ensure that a Dutch channel is also fed in.

Frau Plooij-van Gorsel, ich kann Ihnen mitteilen, daß dieser Punkt am Mittwoch auf der Tagesordnung der Quästoren steht.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can tell you that this matter is on the agenda for the Quaestors' meeting on Wednesday.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can inform you that this item is on the Quaestors' agenda for Wednesday.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can tell you that this item is on the Quaestors' agenda on Wednesday.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can tell you that this item will be on the Quaestors' agenda on Wednesday.

Ich hoffe, daß dort in Ihrem Sinne entschieden wird.
It will, I hope, be examined in a positive light.
I hope that a decision will be taken there in your favour.
I hope that it will be decided on your behalf.
I hope that a decision will be taken there in your interests.

Frau Präsidentin, können Sie mir sagen, warum sich dieses Parlament nicht an die Arbeitsschutzregelungen hält, die es selbst verabschiedet hat?
Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament does not adhere to the health and safety legislation that it actually passes?
Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament is not abiding by the health and safety regulations that it has itself adopted?
Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament is not adhering to the occupational safety and health regulations that it itself adopted?
Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament is not complying with the health and safety regulations which it itself has adopted?

Weshalb wurde die Luftqualität in diesem Gebäude seit unserer Wahl nicht ein einziges Mal überprüft?
Why has no air quality test been done on this particular building since we were elected?
Why has the air quality in this building not been checked once since our election?
Why has the air quality in this building not been checked once since our choice?
Why has n'r been tested once since our election?

Weshalb ist der Arbeitsschutzausschuß seit 1998 nicht ein einziges Mal zusammengetreten?
Why has there been no Health and Safety Committee meeting since 1998?
Why has the Health and Safety Committee not met once since 1998?
Why has the OSH Committee not met once since 1998?
Why has the Health and Safety Committee not met once since 1998?

Warum hat weder im Brüsseler noch im Straßburger Parlamentsgebäude eine Brandschutzübung stattgefunden?
Why has there been no fire drill, either in the Brussels Parliament buildings or the Strasbourg Parliament buildings?
Why has there been no fire drill in either the Brussels or Strasbourg Parliament buildings?
Why didn't a fire drill take place in either the Brussels or Strasbourg parliament buildings?
Why has there not been a fire safety exercise in either the Brussels or Strasbourg Parliament buildings?

Warum finden keine Brandschutzbelehrungen statt?
Why are there no fire instructions?
Why is there no fire protection instruction?
Why are there no fire protection instructions?
Why are there no fire safety instructions?

Warum wurde nach meinem Unfall nichts unternommen, um die Treppen sicherer zu machen?
Why have the staircases not been improved since my accident?
Why was nothing done to make the stairs safer after my accident?
Why was nothing done after my accident to make the stairs safer?
Why was nothing done to make the stairs safer after my accident?

Warum wird in den Nichtraucherzonen das Rauchverbot nicht durchgesetzt?
Why are no-smoking areas not enforced?
Why is the smoking ban not enforced in non-smoking areas?
Why is the smoking ban not enforced in the non-smoking areas?
Why is the smoking ban not enforced in non-smoking areas?

Es ist eine Schande, daß wir Regeln verabschieden, an die wir uns dann selbst nicht halten.
It seems absolutely disgraceful that we pass legislation and do not adhere to it ourselves.
It is a shame that we adopt rules which we then do not follow ourselves.
It is a shame that we adopt rules that we then do not adhere to.
It is a disgrace that we are adopting rules that we do not follow ourselves.

Frau Lynne, Sie haben völlig recht, und ich werde prüfen, ob all dies wirklich so ist.
Mrs Lynne, you are quite right and I shall check whether this has actually not been done.
Mrs Lynne, you are quite right, and I will check whether all this is true.
Ms. Lynne, you are absolutely right and I will check whether all of this is really the case.
Mrs Lynne, you are absolutely right, and I will check whether all this is really the case.