Resumption of the session.
I declare the european Parliament's session, which was suspended on Friday 17 December, to be resumed, i hope that you will once again have had a good time at the turn of the year.
As you have seen, the dreaded 'millennium bug' has not occurred. However, citizens of some of our Member States have fallen victim to terrible natural disasters.
There is a desire in Parliament for a debate in the course of this part-session in the next few days.
Today I would ask you - and this is also the wish of some members - to observe a minute's silence in memory of all the victims of the storms, particularly in the various countries of the European Union.
I would ask you to observe a minute's silence.
(The House rose and observed a minute's silence)
Madam President, on a point of order.
As you will know from the press and television, there have been several bomb explosions in Sri Lanka, with numerous deaths.
Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who visited the European Parliament only a few months ago, is one of the recent victims of the attack in Sri Lanka.
Would it be appropriate if you, Madam President, sent a letter to the President of Sri Lanka conveying Parliament's regret saplor for the violent deaths of Mr Ponnambalam and other sri Lankan citizens and calling on them to do everything in their power to find a peaceful solution to this very difficult situation?
Yes, Mr Evans, I think that such an initiative is entirely appropriate.
If the House agrees, I will follow Mr Evans' proposal.
Madam President, on a point of order.
Could you give me information on Article 143 in relation to inadmissibility?
My question concerns a matter which will be raised on Thursday and which I will refer to again.
On Thursday, Parliament will consider the Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes, which proposes in paragraph 6 that countries that do not meet their fleet reduction target should be subject to a kind of quota penalty each year.
In doing so, such penalties should be imposed despite the principle of relative stability.
I believe that the principle of relative stability is a fundamental legal principle of the common fisheries policy and that a proposal to undermine it would be legally inadmissible.
I would like to know whether it is possible to raise an objection to a document which is merely a report and not a legislative proposal, and whether I have the power to do so on Thursday.
That is precisely when you can raise this issue, if you wish, on Thursday at the beginning of the debate on the report.
Madam President! Unfortunately, this year's first session of the European Parliament coincides with the fact that in the United States, in Texas, the execution of a 34-year-old young man named Hicks, who has been sentenced to death, has been scheduled for Thursday this week.
At the request of a French Member, Mr Zimeray, a petition has already been submitted, which has been signed by many, including myself.
However, in accordance with the line now constantly adopted by the European Parliament and by the European Union as a whole, I would ask you to use all the influence of your office and the institution you represent with the presidential candidate and Governor of Texas, George W. Bush, who has the power to suspend the execution of the death sentence and to pardon the convict.
All this is in line with the principles that we have always defended.
Thank you, Mr Segni, I would like to do so.
That is in line with the position that we as a Parliament have always taken.
Madam President! I would like to draw your attention to a case that this Parliament has dealt with time and again.
This is the case of Alexander Nikitin.
We are all pleased that the court acquitted him and made it clear that access to environmental information is constitutional law in Russia too.
But now he is to be indicted again because the prosecutor is appealing.
We know, and we have noted it in a great many resolutions - particularly during the last part-session of last year - that this is not just a legal case and that it is wrong to accuse Alexander Nikitin of crime and treason, because we, as those affected, benefit from his findings.
These results are the basis for the European programmes for the protection of the Barents Sea, and I would therefore ask you to examine a draft letter outtosing the most important facts and to make this position clear in line with Parliament's decisions in Russia.
Mrs Schroedter, I am happy to examine the facts that go with it when I have received your letter.
Madam President, first of all, thank you very much for keeping your word and for actually expanding the range of television programmes in our offices in the first part-session of the new year.
Nevertheless, Madam President, my request has not been met.
We can now receive two Finnish and one Portuguese, but still no Dutch channel. However, I asked you for a Dutch programme, because we Dutch, too, would like to follow the news when we are sent here every month to exile.
I would therefore ask you once again to ensure that a Dutch channel is also fed in.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can tell you that this item will be on the Quaestors' agenda on Wednesday.
I hope that a decision will be taken there in your interests.
Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament is not complying with the health and safety regulations which it itself has adopted?
Why has n'r been tested once since our election?
Why has the Health and Safety Committee not met once since 1998?
Why has there not been a fire safety exercise in either the Brussels or Strasbourg Parliament buildings?
Why are there no fire safety instructions?
Why was nothing done to make the stairs safer after my accident?
Why is the smoking ban not enforced in non-smoking areas?
It is a disgrace that we are adopting rules that we do not follow ourselves.
Mrs Lynne, you are absolutely right, and I will check whether all this is really the case.
I will also put the question to the Quaestors. I am sure that they attach great importance to ensuring that we comply with the legislation that we adopt ourselves.
Madam President! Mrs Gonzalez and I asked a number of questions on certain statements by the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, which was reproduced in a Spanish newspaper.
The relevant services did not include them on the agenda because they felt that they had already been answered at a previous meeting.
I would ask you to reconsider this decision, because that is not the case.
The earlier questions answered related to Mrs de Palacio's appearance on a particular matter, not the statements published in the ABC newspaper on 18 November last year.
Dear my colleague, we shall look into this.
I must tell you, however, that I think the situation is a little confused at the moment.
However, we will examine this very carefully so that everything is correct.
Madam President, I would like to know whether Parliament this week will send out a clear signal of our dissatisfaction with today's decision to reject an extension of the arms embargo on Indonesia, especially as the vast majority in this Parliament has in the past voted in favour of the arms embargo on Indonesia.
Today's decision against extending the embargo poses a very great danger, given the situation there.
Parliament should send a message to this, as this is what the large majority wants.
The rejection by the EU Member States of an extension of the embargo is irresponsible.
As has already been said, the situation in Indonesia is extremely unstable.
There is even a risk of a military coup.
We don't know what's going on.
So why should arms manufacturers in the EU make profits at the expense of innocent people?
This point has not yet been scheduled for Thursday's topical and urgent debate.
Routing
The next item is the examination of the final draft agenda as defined by the Conference of Presidents on Thursday 13 January, in accordance with Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.\n","to":"en"}]}]
There are no changes to Monday and Tuesday.
On Wednesday:
The S&D Group is asking for a Commission statement on its strategic objectives for the next five years and on the Commission's administrative reform to be included on the agenda.
I would ask the applicant, Mr Baron Crespo, to justify his request if he so wishes.
After that, we proceed as usual: one speaker in favour, one against.
Madam President! The presentation of the Prodi Commission's political programme for the entire parliamentary term was based on a proposal from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which received the unanimous approval of the Conference of Presidents in September and the express agreement of President Prodi, who confirmed his commitment in his inaugural speech.
This commitment is important in so far as the Commission is an institution which, under the Treaties, has a monopoly of initiative and thus fundamentally shapes the political and legislative activities of this Parliament over the next five years.
I would also like to remind you that this Parliament expressed its confidence in President Prodi twice during the previous parliamentary term; in this parliamentary term, it once again expressed its confidence in him in July, and then, when the new Commission was in office, there was another vote of confidence in the Commission as a whole in September.
So the Commission has already had enough time to draw up its programme, and we have had enough time to get to know it and explain it to the citizens.
With this in mind, I would remind you of the resolution of 15 September, which recommended that the proposal be presented within the shortest possible time.
The events of the past week - which began in the margins of the Conference of Presidents and were used only to confirm and ratify decisions taken outside the Council - illustrate a dilemma: either the Commission is unable to present this programme (in this case it should clarify it.
In the words of its president, it is capable of that.
Since the Commission is represented by the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, I think it is appropriate to know the Commission's position before the vote on its willingness to present the programme as agreed, or Parliament is not in a position to examine this programme, as some seem to say.
In my view, this second hypothesis would be tantamount to abandoning our responsibilities as Parliament and, moreover, raising an original thesis, an unknown method, which would be to inform the political groups of the Commission's programme speech in writing a week before - and not, as agreed, the day before - bearing in mind that the legislative programme will be discussed in February. so that we could refrain from the debate, because the press and the Internet would have informed all the citizens the following day and Parliament would no longer have any reason to deal with the matter.
Since my group believes that a Parliament is there to listen, to discuss and to reflect, we do not believe that there is any reason to justify this delay, and we believe that if the Commission is able to do so, we will be in the time to re-enter into force the original agreement between Parliament and the Commission and to be able to act responsibly in front of our fellow citizens.
That is why the proposal of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, to which you mentioned, is to keep Wednesday as the date for the presentation of the Prodi Commission programme for the parliamentary term, and also to include in this programme the administrative reform project, otherwise we could find a paradoxical situation: on the one hand, the excuse that the text is not available denys the President of the Commission the right to do so. , to speak in this Parliament and, on the other hand, there would be a debate on the reform without this Parliament being able to read the texts on which the debate is based.
I would therefore ask you, Madam President, to ask the Commission to speak now and then proceed to the vote.
(Applause from the PSE Group)
Madam President, dear colleagues! I am somewhat surprised by the behaviour of Mr Crespo, who is now demanding that this item on the agenda be placed on wednesday's agenda.
You were unable to be present at the Conference of Presidents last Thursday, Mr Baron Crespo.
I do not criticise that; it always happens that you are represented.
Mr Hänsch represented you there.
We had an in-depth debate in the Conference of Presidents.
Only your group has defended what you are now saying.
We then voted.
Every chairman has as many votes as the group has members.
There was a vote on this point.
I remember this vote was as follows: 422 votes to 180 with a few abstentions.
In other words, all the groups, with the exception of the non-attached Members - but they are not a group - agreed that only your group agreed to proceed as you have proposed here.
Everyone else disagreed.
That was the decision.
Now I would like to say something about the matter itself.